# February 2020 / Weekly Sync

GitHub Archive: [minutes/weekly/2020-02.md](https://github.com/bokeh/pm/blob/master/minutes/weekly/2020-02.md)

* [05-Feb](#05-Feb)
* [12-Feb](#12-Feb)
* [19-Feb](#19-Feb)
* [26-Feb](#26-Feb)

# 05 Feb

*Attending: Bryan, Mateusz, Pavithra*

## Agenda
- Review milestone and release schedule
    - One more day for Resources work + SRI hashes
    - Push schedule one week - code freeze next Monday, release following
- GSOC
    - No more edits to ideas list after today
- Applying Black formatting
    - Come to decision next meeting
- Pyladies Dashboard
    - No updates or further communication
    - Asked Phllip to ping one of their new contributors

## Updates

### Mateusz

- Work to finish exporting on Chrome/FF across platforms
    - differences in lightness of pixels (e.g. due to font rendering)
    - can be reliably detected and accounted
    - otherwise pixel perfect diffs for checked-in browsers

- Working on resources refactor as highest priority
    - If not, will merge temprary SRI hash PR 

- Plan to move "examples integration" tests out of examples and in to integration

### Bryan 

- PR to remove use of pytest marks 
    - need to fix up some tests that were failing (and skipped earlier

- Finished the PR for directory style apps being package 

- All directory style apps now have common/uniform README
    - still need to upload a few screenshots

- Updated the Jupyter docs section
    - added notebook.rst to point to new jupyter.rst

- More work to set up Zulip
    - set up Twitter, GitHub, Pingdom, Stack Overflow integrations

## Actions

- [ ] ***(Phillip) Merge MultiChooser PR***
- [x] (Bryan) Finish uploading README screenshots
- [x] (Pavithra) Test manual dev build
- [ ] (Bryan and Mateusz) Write up cases for/against Black formatting


# 12 Feb

*Attending: Bryan, Mateusz, Pavithra, Phillip*

## Agenda
- Review milestone and release schedule
    - holding pattern for resources and token works
- GSOC Status/Updates 
    - "Getting to know" period opened, students showing up
- Post 2.0 release cadence
    - proposal: 4-6 week cadence for small 
        - Maybe create a BEP to describe intentions?

## Updates

### Mateusz

- Testing PR in better shape 
    - visual differences limited to fonts
- Resources PR
    - hopefully done today
- Exports work PR 

### Phillip

- Token PR mostly happy with 
    - Examples tests need to be fixed up
    - pull_session may need tests
    - also to figure out: consistent model ids across processes
- Migration work on downstream projects
    - running in to APIs that were broken but not documented
        - (decision) put back old functions possibly deprecated

### Pavithra

- Tested "manual" dev builds
    - Conda/Pip package install/work as expected

### Bryan 

- Pycascades sprints
    - 2-3 people stopped by, worked on examples and tutorials
    - Might get put in touch with a designer interested to work on cleaning pu our visual assets accrss the project (fingers crossed)
- Answered GSoC student queries
- Discourse updates
    - Waiting on new beta version to resolve a Google login issue (currently getting lots of email warnings from Google)
- Merged PR for removing test marks
    - Run tests now using directory e.g. `py.test tests/unit`

## Actions

- [ ] ***(Phillip) Merge MultiChooser PR***
- [x] *(Bryan and Mateusz) Write up cases for/against Black formatting*
- [ ] (Phillip) put back webdriver functions
- [x] (Bryan) Discuss GSOC publicity/etc with Carolyn

# 19 Feb

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, Jim, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp*

## Agenda
- Review milestone and release schedule
    - code freeze friday, release mid-week next
    - milestone list pruned
- GSOC Status/Updates 
- NumFocus SDG CFP
- Infrastructure Show and Tell
- Porting layout performance improvements from Panel?
    - Do plan to port over changes from Panel

## Updates

### Mateusz
- bokeh.io export changes, in good shape now
- still WIP for resources
    - perhaps should wait until after 2.0

### Carolyn
- Writing up release 2.0 blog post
    - Need screen shots, copy, etc for blog post
- Plan social media updates after GSOC launch announce
- Update to NF newsletter (due today)

### Philipp
- Token PR merged
- Updating upstream projects for compatibility
- Get back to Multichoice PR and annoying Toolbar bug 
- Ask for PR review of template items

### Bryan

- Bunch of small PRs this week, including removing broken bokeh commands (html, etc; json still works and was left in)
- PR to fix export png on OSX
- PR to clear warnings about weird use of super; cleaned up unit spec hierarchy
- PR to ensure that selenium is not used in common imports; added a test that selenium is not part of common imports
- Deleted custom.md template for issues
- Clarified scales hierarchy

## Actions

- [x] ***(Phillip) Merge MultiChooser PR***
- [x] *(Bryan and Mateusz) Write up cases for/against Black formatting*
- [ ] (Phillip) put back webdriver functions
- [ ] (Carolyn) finish 2.0 release post for Medium
- [x] (Carolyn) line up social media releases for GSOC

# 26 Feb

*Attending: Bryan, Mateusz, Pavithra*

## Agenda
- Review milestone and release schedule
    - Release candidate out tonight
    - Plan release on Monday
- Tesla tweet 
- Porting layout performance improvements from Panel?
    - Matesuz decided not to do for this release

## Updates

### Mateusz
- toolbar short term fixes
- working on test infrastructure 

### Bryan
- Closed some PRs
    - BOKEH_VERSION-BOKEH_CDN_VERSON 
        - not working in general due to too-strict Resources checks
    - Date range slider issue fixed
    - Tooltips not displayed correctly - fixed
    - sdist package size reduced to 6Mb
    - Changed the refdocs to include inherited properties
    - Broken Bokeh commands removed

## Actions

- [ ] (Carolyn) finish 2.0 release post for Medium
- [ ] (Bryan) Get release candidate out tonight
- [ ] (Mateusz) Manual build and documentation updates

