# April 2020 / Weekly Sync

GitHub Archive: [minutes/weekly/2020-04.md](https://github.com/bokeh/pm/blob/master/minutes/weekly/2020-04.md)


# 1 Apr

*Attending: Bryan, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp*

## Agenda

- New hackmd note for April?
- GSoC review period
- Credential spill
- Release automation questions

## Updates

### Philipp

- Look at Django integration (extend extension serving to Django)
- Experiments with multiple kernels for ipywidgets integrations

### Mateusz

- Docs/widgets for ipywidgets
- Experiments with multiple kernels for ipywidgets integrations
- Fixed issue with reloading saved content
- Multiple BokehJs versions per page

### Bryan

- 2.0.1 released
- Automation work releases
- Look at the GSoC ideas page
- Re-deployed demo site on Elastic Beanstalk

## Actions

* [x] (Bryan) this content to new April HackMD note
* [x] (Bryan) ping Chris Holdgraf about nbviewer 
    - issue ongoing, removed nbviewer.org links
* [x] (Bryan) reply above GSoC selection (before next meeting)
* [x] (Mateusz) Add issue about NPM publishing 
* [ ] (Philipp) Comment on existing ipwidgets docs
* [ ] (Pavithra) Add FDV Notebook for chapter 1


# 8 Apr

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp*

## Agenda

- Slack / Delete Gitter and Zulip
    - bokeh-dev.slack.com
- GSoC slot request
- NPM tokens?
- Google Season of Docs

## Updates

### Mateusz

* Working on bokehjs testing infrastrucure
  * `await view.ready` now waits for deferred rendering to finish
  * added tests for a few recent PRs merged without proper testing
  * image diff test infrastructure merged but not enabled yet due to unresolved platform differences
* Working on data-aware color bars
* Working on making bokehjs shadow DOM and web component compatible
* Allow to update `FactorRange.factors`
 
### Philipp

* Fix Django Server by switching to CDN resources by default and then get proper fix in

### Bryan

* 2 small PRs closed
* Slack setup
* GsoC things
* Working on automating releases

### Carolyn

* Work on Jupyter blog post

## Actions

* [ ] *(Philipp) Comment on existing ipwidgets docs*
* [x] *(Pavithra) Add FDV Notebook for chapter 1*
* [ ] (Philipp) Chase up Jim about ipywidgets blog post
* [ ] (Mateusz) Look in to keeping OTP token turned for NPM
* [x] (Philipp) Create issue about token encryption and whitelisting cookies
* [x] (Bryan) Try to get shadow DOM complete example from Discourse user

# 15 Apr

*Attending: Bryan, Pavitha, Philipp, Ryan*

## Agenda

- Release 2.0.2
    - Plan cut release over weekend/announce on Monday
- Project/NF Sync meeting Friday
- GitGuardian 
- Slack
- Season of Docs
    - Org application is currently open

## Updates

### Philipp
- testing django/windows fix
- created issue for token / secret cookies

### Pavithra

- Looking into Season of Doc

### Carolyn

- what can I do to be helpful with Ayush?
- align on plan for Fundamentals of Data Visualization notebooks
- Scipy 2020 virtual, anyone want to submit?

### Mateusz

- Continuing working on colorbar
- Working on making bokehjs shadow DOM

### Bryan 

- Little bit of clean-up: miniconda
- Added some missing release notes
- Continue working on release automation
- Working on new markers (for 2.1)

## Actions

- [ ] (Bryan) Intentionally check GitGuardian on a smaller repo
- [ ] (Pavithra) Create a Slack channel for Season of Docs