# Q4 2020 / Weekly Sync

###### tags: `minutes` 

## Minutes

HackMD: https://hackmd.io/@bokeh/HksuIro8v

GitHub Archive: [minutes/weekly-sync/2020-Q4.md](https://github.com/bokeh/pm/blob/master/minutes/weekly-sync/2020-Q4.md)

## Links

* [October](#October)
* [November](#November)
* [December](#Devember)

---

# December

* [02-Dec](#02-Dec)

## 02-Dec

*Attending: Brendan, Bryan, Carolyn, Marco, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

- Python 3.6 schedule?
    - https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/wiki/BEP-9:-Downstream-Version-Support
    - https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/10558
- Release status
    - 3 showstoppers, looking at 

### Updates

#### Bryan

- PR and milestone triage
- Helped finish Python 3.9 CI issues
- Discussed CZI presentation LaTex 

#### Brendan 

- working CZI presentation
- met with Mattpap to discuss LaTeX integration and CZI priorities

#### Carolyn

- PR in for legend-by-size, but needs more work for mixed use cases

#### Mateusz

- added support for Less/CSS to extensions
- added support for user supplied licenses to extensions
- publishing npm packages in deploy workflow
    - published 2.3.0dev8
- redesigned (simplified) inclusion of CSS modules
- fixed arrows' clipping issues
- cleaned up the issue tracker a bit (stale issues, etc.)
- working on a PR fixing performance and precision-loss regressions

#### Philipp

- Fix for SRI hashing for extensions
- Testing 2.3 Holoviews & Panel

#### Pavithra

- Microscopium demo
- Submitted a Bokeh workshop for Outlier conf

#### Marco

- Working on CZI / examples, talked with Jim Bednar

### Actions


---

# November

* [25-Nov](#25-Nov)
* [18-Nov](#18-Nov)
* [11-Nov](#11-Nov)
* [04-Nov](#04-Nov)

## 25-Nov

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, Marco, Mateusz, Pavithra, Timo*

### Agenda

- Code freeze
    - freeze at next meeting 11/3

### Updates

#### Mateusz

- finalized migration from marker models to scatter glyph
- added support for user proveded licenses to extensions
- resolved most problems with Python 3.9
    - isort still needs sorting out
    - awkward failures of `test_filters` (`bokeh/test___init__.py`)
- fixed a bug in SVG canvas' `drawImage()`
- fixed SVG export of layouts containing `ToolbarBox`
- fixed starting of headless chrome in examples' tests
    - reuses bokehjs' test framework
- added support for `Tool.description`
    - replaces `action_tooltip`, `help_toolip`, `custom_tooltip`
    - perhaps apply the same to custom icon properties
- added support for generating ESM bokehjs bundles
    - switched bokehjs' examples to use ESM
    - lays the ground work for robust multiple bundle support
- added module cycle detection and fixed most problematic cases
- addes support gesture preference to `TapTool`
- fixed `MultiChoice` widget's dropdown menu `z-index`
- continued work on axis labeling, colors and performance regressions

#### Carolyn 

- Working on legend by glyph size; interesting edge cases requiring decisions came up in testing. Will submit PR
- NF updates

#### Bryan

- PR reviews
- Fixed conda-build issue breaking CI
- Got demo of extensive Bokeh app from colleague

#### Marco

- Working on the CZI presentation

#### Actions


## 18-Nov

*Attending: Bryan, Jim, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Brendan*

### Agenda

- Grant announcement is tomorrow!
- Bokeh 2.3 release planning
    - Code freeze end of November (30th)

### Updates

#### Mateusz

- experimented with webgl rendering of `Scatter` glyph with variadic marker types
- refactored webgl shader code for ease of development
    - auto-wrap in JS modules in the build
- dropped marker glyphs in favour of `Scatter` glyph
    - avoid confusion between `X()`, `Scatter(marker="x")` and `fig.x()`
    - adds support for webgl rendering to `Scatter` glyph (only for uniform marker type)
- improvements to color management
    - support passing colors as ndarrays (e.g. `uint8[N, 4]` for RGBA)
    - improved memory layout of color buffers in webgl (normalized `uint8` vs `float32`)
    - support for parsing CSS4 colors (e.g. `#RRGGBBAA`)
- continued work on compiler improvements (for extensions)
- attempted to resolve Python 3.9 compatibility issues

#### Pavithra

- Grant announcement blog
- Pydata global sprint

#### Bryan

- PyData Global Sprint
- PR Reviews
- Dev Release

#### Jim

- Presentation at Texas GIS Day and Python Austin meetup

#### Brendan

- Working on Bokeh presentation
- Set up Google Drive to manage collaboration on CZI work
- Getting set up again

#### Philipp

- Started evaluating bokeh 2.3 dev releases against Panel/HoloViews

#### Carolyn

- Working on LinkedIn posts
- Adding size legend

### Actions

- (Bryan) Talk to a Ajay about cuXFilter downstream tests
- (Mateusz/Brendan) Schedule meeting to discuss progress on SVG and kick things off

## 11-Nov

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

- CZI Announce
    - 19th Nov
- 2.3 Release schedule
    - code freeze: end of month (30th Nov/1st Dec)

### Updates

#### Bryan

- Support questions
- PR reviews
- Surfacing examples from the repo to the docs

#### Pavithra

- Funding blog
- Pydata global this weekend

#### Mateusz

- another approach to redesign of `set_data()` and visuals
- upgraded to TS 4.1 RC to use new fancy type system features
- fixed a regression in the new bokehjs' serializer
- add support for `grad` and `turn` CSS angle units
    - simplified angle handling code paths
- Build / bundling improvements
    - will support ES6 packages, etc

#### Carolyn 

- 2.3 blog post

### Actions

- (Bryan) new Dev build out today
- (Mateusz) publish jupyter bokeh

## 04-Nov

*Attending: Mateusz* 

### Agenda

- 2.3 release schedule / status

### Updates

#### Bryan

- Infra work
    - resized Discourse droplet after difficult software upgrade
    - re-launched demo site after reliability notifs
    - converted NPMJS "bokeh" account to be organization
    - 2.3.dev5 pushed

#### Mateusz

- finalized `PlotView` refactoring (needed for other work)
- finalized work on `BinnedTicker`
    - fixed innacurate font measurements
    - improved font preload in tests
- continued work on labeling of axes
- fixed invalidation of ``HoverTool``'s computed renderers
    - fixed a memory leak in promisified signals
    - improvements to signaling module
- implemented proper views for `ArrowHead` models
- updated bokehjs' dependencies (dropped mocha)
- auto-generate `index.ts` files in bokehjs' tests
- early work in progress improvements to module linker
    - support for LESS/CSS in the "new compiler"
    - multiple bundle support

---

# October

* [28-Oct](#28-Oct)
* [21-Oct](#21-Oct)
* [14-Oct](#14-Oct)
* [07-Oct](#07-Oct)

## 28-Oct

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, James, Jay, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

* Grant status

### Updates

#### Bryan

- grant work (meetings, emails, questionaires)
- fixed BokehJS version issue failing all tests
- release automation tweaks

#### Mateusz

- continued work on axis labeling
    - implemeting various labeling policies
- redesigned serialization API/scheme in bokehjs (and partially in bokeh)
    - decoupled serialization from `HasProps` and partially from `Document`
    - prepares ground for future protocol improvements (e.g. unify `NaN` handling)
    - improved coverage and robustness defaults' tests as a side effect
- made `api.plotting.show()` to wait for `DOMContentLoaded` event
- fixed double escape regression (issue #10604)
- re-typing resolved/materialized arrays in glyph views (issue #10594)
- investigating implementing views (model state) for viewless models (issue #10582)
    - allow to make bokehjs' models resuable (node.js, workers) (e.g. `WebDataSource.setup`)
    - don't expose bokehjs' state and internal implementation details (e.g. syntentic coordinates)
    - keep public model properties in sync between bokehjs and bokeh (see e.g. `Range.bounds`) 

#### Pavithra

- Working on the contributing guide
- Reached out to Data Umbrella to include Bokeh in their OSS resources

#### Philipp

- Fix to Jupyter Bokeh
- Writing about Panel-Bokeh extensions

#### Carolyn

- Working on glyph-size legend (blocker, sort of, on FDV)
- New showcase: scatter of demographics in Belgian election

### Actions

- [ ] *(Carolyn, Pavithra) Statement of Interest for Nasa*
- [ ] *(Pavithra) GH issue about pydata-sphinx-theme*
- [ ] (Pavithra) Grant related blog post

## 21-Oct

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

- BEP 9 (versioning)
    - https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/wiki/BEP-9:-Downstream-Version-Support
- 2.3 release plans/schedule
    - mid to late Nov

### Updates

#### Bryan

- Release 2.2.3
- Bug triage
- Release automation (mostly done now)
- Remove Bokeh from nbviewer front page

#### Mateusz

- continued work on data models and related concepts
    - experimental new serializer (e.g. with unified handling of objects)
    - started working on testing serialization code and protocol
    - use dataclasses for structs instead of plain dicts
- finalizing work on more robust axis labeling
    - allow labels to be generic graphics objects (e.g. text label with an image)
    - multiple policies for reducing label intersections
- experiments with generating code from bokehjs' models
    - related to serialization/protocol work
    - experimenting with Julia bindings (revive Bokeh.jl)
- minor improvements to bokehjs' code quality
- fixed regression #10589 (multiline glyph with filters)

#### Pavithra

- Found potential NASA grant for support for OSS

#### Philipp

- working on Panel release (today)

#### Carolyn

- Working on FDV plots for blog post
    - ran in to legend fo glyph size issue

### Actions

- [x] (Carolyn) Talk to NF about NASA grant
- [ ] (Carolyn, Pavithra) Statement of Interest for Nasa
- [ ] (Pavithra) GH issue about pydata-sphix-theme

## 14-Oct

*Attending: Bryan, Pavithra, Philipp, Mateusz, Timo*

### Agenda

### Updates

#### Mateusz

- preliminary support for data models and variables
- preliminary support for CustomJS and symbolic expressions
- added support for categorical ranges to annotations (e.g. Whisker)
- continuing work on a more robust tick labeler and axis modularization

#### Bryan

- Release 2.2.2
- Bug triage
- Release automation
- Small issues like hatching, etc

#### Timo

- Style guidelines showcase

#### Pavithra

- Contributing guide

#### Philipp

- Panel release
- Talk at JupyterCon

### Actions

## 07-Oct

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, James, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

- [PyCascades 2021 Remote](https://pretalx.com/pycascades-2021/cfp)
    - CFP closes Nov 10
    - Mentored sprints?
- Milestone BEP
    - https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/wiki/BEP-6:-Branching-Strategy
    - Vote thumbs up/down https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/10177

### Updates

#### Bryan

- no upates
- will cut 2.2.2 release today

#### Philipp

- 2.2.2 Milestone

#### Carolyn

- working on some FDV notebooks

#### Pavithra

- looking at PyCascade

#### Mateusz

- continuing working on ongoing work

### Actions
