# Q2 2020 / Weekly Sync

## Minutes

HackMD: https://hackmd.io/@bokeh/HyYsdmvFI

GitHub Archive: [minutes/weekly-sync/2020-Q1-Q2.md](https://github.com/bokeh/pm/blob/master/minutes/weekly-sync/2020-Q1-Q2.md)

## Links

* [June](#June)
* [May](#May)
* [April](#April)

---

# June

* [24-Jun](#24-Jun)
* [17-Jun](#17-Jun)
* [10-Jun](#10-Jun)
* [03-Jun](#03-Jun)

## 24-Jun

*Attending: Bryan, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp*

### Agenda
- New BEPs?
    - Decision Making/Recording
    - Privacy Policy
        - TBD waiting on CDN scrubbing pipeline
    - Branching Process
        - Will draft from issue comments this week
- Recent Comparisons
    - https://containds.com/2020/06/19/a-roundup-of-data-visualization-frameworks/
    - https://pauliacomi.com/2020/06/07/plotly-v-bokeh.html
- GSOD
    -  https://discourse.bokeh.org/t/season-of-docs-2020-proposals/5769
- GSOC Status

### Updates

#### Mateusz

- first draft of color bars and color mapping improvements
- initial refactoring for sub-coordinate systems support
- various performance improvements (e.g. Patches)
- rewrote gloo in TS and incorporated it into bokehjs
- fixed Rect placement with partial categoricals

#### Philipp

- Released HoloViews 1.13.3 and Panel 0.9.6
- Did not observe any regressions with 2.1.1
- Still writing ipywidgets blog post

#### Bryan
- Released 2.1.1
- Working on new automation this week
- Small fixes
- Started Draft BEPs


### Actions

- [ ] (Bryan) look at starting branch-2.2
- [ ] (Bryan) look at cherry picking 2.1.1 fixes forward
- [ ] (Bryan) flesh out BEP drafts

## 17-Jun

*Attending: Ayush, Bryan, Jim, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp*

### Agenda

- Projects/tasks to promote for CZI?
    - Replace WebGL task
    - Suggestions: Testing, improve SVG
- Release post-mortem, 2.1.1 release on Monday
    - Cherry pick 2.1.1 release

### Updates

#### Bryan

- Release 2.1 on Monday
- Looking at webgl

#### Mateusz

- regression fixes after 2.1 release
- improved serialization of typed arrays
- more efficient construction of spatial index
- assert glyphs use typed arrays whenever possible
- other minor speed improvements to glyphs
- made all renderers respect `visible` property
- support for storing buffers separately from JSON
- early WIP for filling in gaps in `HasProps.define()`

#### Pavithra

- imported some blog posts to medium
- progress on FDV

#### Philipp

- Looking at Django server cleanup handling

### Actions

- [x] (bryan) Start CZI application doc
- [x] (bryan) Send Medium embedding infor to Pavithra
- [ ] (bryan) Ask around about 2d canvas optimization
- [x] (bryan) Send out last CZI questionaire results

## 10-Jun

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp*

### Agenda
- release branch?
- GH org Sponsors
- Release plans
    - rc2 out now, will release Monday
    - testing of release candidates/ docs

### Updates

#### Mateusz
- finalized work on bokehjs' unit tests and structural equality
- fixed regressions related to resizing and repainting canvas
- fixed image baseline tests broken by the release of Chrome 83
- added support for archiving (via artifacts) examples tests' output
- continued work on data management for color mappers and color bars
    - redesign of indexing; introduced `BitSet` data structure (WIP)

#### Bryan
- prepping release candidates

#### Philipp

- Started ipywidgets blog post
- Testing Colab integration

#### Carolyn
- old blog updated to point to Medium
- 2.1 blog post ready to go
- Ayush's first post up!
- Starting on blog post covering GitHub sponsorship, ongoing, projects, org changes -- target for publication later next week

#### Pavithra
- Tiny PR for backdating medium blogs
- Some CZI research
- Getting back to FDV

### Actions
- [x] (Mateusz) Make issue to discuss releasing from a release branch
- [x] (Philipp) Make issue to discuss porting Panel Widgets
- [ ] *(Pavithra) Email for grant writing help*

## 03-Jun

*Attending: Ayush, Bryan, Mateusz, Philipp*

### Agenda

- release this week
    - build RCs tomorrow
    - plan to announce next monday

### Updates

#### Mateusz
- implemented cached HTML layout
- fixed various issues around Tool.active
- fixed issues with resizing and clearing SVG canvas
- added support for menus to proxy toolbar
- more upgrades to Map/Set across the codebase
- improvements to bokehjs' tests and structural equality
    - replacement for `chai`
    - `Equals` interface and `Symbol.equals`
    - make structural equality the default in tests
    - normalized and robustified assertions

#### Ayush

- Started working on measurement
    - draft this week
- Working on first blog

#### Philipp

- Running into some issues with ipywidgets_bokeh
  - Events not being processed in some scenarios; working on reproducible example
  - requirejs confusing notebook detection for Panel
  - External assets (e.g. icons/fonts) not loading
- Will look into Colab comms (got a minimal example working)

#### Bryan

- fix build issue where local built package was not used
    - still some issue with weird version being reported
- fixed transparent toolbar highlight for dark modes
- re-submitted mrocklin BaseServer -> BokehTornado PR

### Actions
- [ ] ***(Bryan) Set up CZI meetings with Jim and others***

### Actions

# May

* [27-May](#27-May)
* [20-May](#20-May)
* [13-May](#13-May)
* [06-May](#06-May)

## 27-May

*Attending: Ayush, Bryan, Carolyn, Mateusz, Pavithra*

### Agenda
- GH Org sponsorship
- PyCon India and Africa CFP open
    - [India](https://in.pycon.org/cfp/2020/proposals/) - CFP closes on 14th August
    - [Africa](https://africa.pycon.org/) - CFP closes on 5th June
- Code freeze for 2.1 -- Monday

### Updates

#### Bryan
- reworked mrocklins BaseServer PR
- working on cleaning up Github CI mess
- fix docs old/preview warning banner
- lots triage/review/new contrib interaction

#### Carolyn
- would like to put up a Medium post about all our projects; will outline and ask for input from others
- how best to help with GSOD contributors?

#### Mateusz
- continued work on color bars and data flow/management in bokehjs
- more robust support for handling ndarray serialization
    - ndarrays can appear outside of ColumnarDataSource.data
    - binary/base64 encoding can be used (almost) everywhere
    - shapes are now handled on ndarray objects
- replaced setter/setter_id with a less verbose mechanism
- various improvements to widgets
    - slickgrid and flatpickr are properly destoryed
    - disabled property is now full respected
    - focus is maintaind across all widgets
- introduced "copy to clipboard" sub-action of save tool
- various code robustness improvements
    - dropped isStrictNaN
    - removed our custom Set type
    - substantially increased usage of Map and Set types
    - substantially reduced usage of for-in loop and in opreator

#### Pavithra
- Figured out how to backdate and import older blogs into medium
    - I'll try to do it this week

### Actions
- [ ] *(Pavithra) Email for grant writing help*
- [ ] *(Phillip) open issue around improving pure Bokeh events*
- [x] *(Mateusz) make issue around SVG breakage*
- [x] (Carolyn) post on old blog redirecting to Medium
- [x] (Carolyn) write Medium post about ongoing projects
- [ ] ***(Bryan) Set up CZI meetings with Jim and others***

## 20 May

*Attending: Bryan, Jim, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp*

### Agenda

- 2.1 release target status
- get a couple bullet points for project updates for me to send to NumFocus for May (Carolyn)

### Updates

#### Bryan

- PyCon Mentored Sprints
- Lots of new PR review/triage
- GH Org sponsorship application

#### Mateusz

- fixed disabled property across widgets
- future branch changes are backported
- improving some internal data managing in BokehJS
    - supports color bar work
- fixed issues with webgl selections
- commited svg renderer and fixed rendering of circles

#### Philipp

- Mateusz merged my jupyter_bokeh PR for improving event handling
    - supports throttling, combining events
- Will work on blog post

#### Pavithra

- organized participated in Mentored Sprints
- helping GSoD

### Actions

- [ ] (Phillip) open issue around improving pure Bokeh events
- [ ] (Mateusz) make issue around SVG breakage
- [ ] *(Bryan) Set up CZI meetings with Jim and others*

## 13 May

*Attending: Ayush, Bryan, Carolyn, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp*

### Agenda

- Bokeh got accepted to Season of Docs!
    - Lots of new folks in Slack
- 2.1 release timeline
    - propose code freeze end of month (31st May)
    - next meeting talk about milestones

### Updates

#### Carolyn

- Lots of new great showcase examples
- working on Bokeh palette

#### Ayush

- Looking at design of tools
- Setting up meeting schedules

#### Mateusz

- Backporting work from future branch
- PR to vendor SVG library
- Looking at OS build issue
- Also still working on colorbars, etc

#### Pavithra

- PRs to highlight CoC
- Getting lots of things in the calendar

#### Philipp

- ipywidgets/jupyter work
    - can run nbconvert on notebook w/ ipywidgets
- Working on blog post abotu juptyter integration

#### Bryan

- Finished PR for extra markers
- Infrastructure work - AWS
- Looking into Twitter and LinkedIn posts

### Actions

- [ ] (Bryan) Set up CZI meetings with Jim and others
- [ ] (Pavithra) Set up call with grant writer help

## 06 May

*Attending: Ayush, Bryan, Carolyn, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp*

### Agenda
- AWS topics
    - Can ci.bokeh.org be retired?
    - Bokeh AWS account joined NF AWS org
- Org/governance updates
    - Carolyn joined NF committee
    - Codifying unanimous consent consensus model
- GSOC official announcement
- Some really nice showcases

### Updates

#### Bryan
- Started adding context and help to GFI issues
- Investigating options for CDN log data pipeline
- Updated some org documentation

#### Carolyn
- great new showcases; tweeting out this week MWF
- changes to Medium account to allow multiple writers. Will be in touch with Ayush to get set up for his GSOC blog contributions
- now able to do some Windows testing

#### Pavithra
- Filed the GSoD Application
- New HackMD note

#### Ayush

- Start looking at issues and prioritizing
- Set up kickoff meeting

#### Mateusz
- Merged new testing framework (image baselines in the repo)
- Experimental work on generalized canvas positioning (next week)
- Allow to use different box select modes without keyboard
- Support for toolbar button context menus
- Working on watch mode for dev

#### Philipp

- Ipywidgets/Jupyter integration work
    - Some events remaining to implement
    - Working on adding throttling options
- Talking with Google Colab about providing comms

### Actions

- [ ] (Bryan, Philipp, Ayush) Schedule kick-off for GSOC
- [x] (Ayush) Send link to Full GSOC proposal to Mateusz/Slack
- [x] (Pavithra) Set up a #grants/#czi Slack channel

# April

* [29-Apr](#29-Apr)
* [22-Apr](#22-Apr)
* [15-Apr](#15-Apr)
* [08-Apr](#08-Apr)
* [01-Apr](#01-Apr)

## 29 Apr

*Attending: Ayush, Bryan, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Ryan*

### Agenda

- 2FA for GitHub (update)
- PyCon US mentored sprints for diversity beginners
    - 17th May (4 hours), apply by 10th.

### Updates


#### Bryan

- Continued working on the PR on new marker types.
- Maybe look into WebGL in a month or so.
- Turned on TFA for GH
- Worked on release stuff

#### Pavithra

- GSOD application to submit by Friday

#### Mateusz

- Wrapping up color mapping and color bar PR by tomorrow
- PR on establishing painting engine
    - support gridplots on a single canvas
    - early, perhaps done in a few weeks

#### Ryan

- Working on some first issues

#### Ayush

- Ready to get started at GSOC start
    - 4th May

### Actions
- [ ] **(Mateusz) Look in to keeping OTP token turned for NPM**
- [ ] (Mateusz) Open an issue to discuss testing automation
- [x] (Bryan) Set up Google calendar for Project
- [x] (Pavithra) Submit GSoD application by Friday

## 22 Apr

*Attending: Ayush, Bryan, Carolyn, James, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp*

### Agenda

- 2.0.2 retro
    - Will finalize release today
- JHU embed CDN spike
- CZI Round 3
- NumFocus SDG Round 2
- 2FA for GitHub

### Updates

#### Philipp

- Testing with 2.0.2rc
- Starting on Jupyter blog post iywidgets

#### Pavithra

- Start working on application
    - Meeting on the 27th
- Starting GSOD Ideas wiki page

#### Carolyn

- 2.0.2 blog post draft on Medium, mostly ready to go, need ipywidgets screen shots?
- project updates due to NF today

#### Mateusz

- finalizing image diff tests
- multi-canvas renderer
- color bar/color mapping improvements

#### Bryan

- Working on build release stuff
- Working on Slack integrations
- Working on markers

### Actions

- [x] **(Philipp) Comment on existing ipwidgets docs**
- [x] **(Philipp) Chase up Jim about ipywidgets blog post**
- [ ] **(Mateusz) Look in to keeping OTP token turned for NPM**
- [x] (Bryan) send out info to previous CZI proposal

## 15 Apr

*Attending: Bryan, Pavitha, Philipp, Ryan*

### Agenda

- Release 2.0.2
    - Plan cut release over weekend/announce on Monday
- Project/NF Sync meeting Friday
- GitGuardian
- Slack
- Season of Docs
    - Org application is currently open

### Updates

#### Philipp
- testing django/windows fix
- created issue for token / secret cookies

#### Pavithra

- Looking into Season of Doc

#### Carolyn

- what can I do to be helpful with Ayush?
- align on plan for Fundamentals of Data Visualization notebooks
- Scipy 2020 virtual, anyone want to submit?

#### Mateusz

- Continuing working on colorbar
- Working on making bokehjs shadow DOM

#### Bryan

- Little bit of clean-up: miniconda
- Added some missing release notes
- Continue working on release automation
- Working on new markers (for 2.1)

### Actions

- [x] (Bryan) Intentionally check GitGuardian on a smaller repo
- [x] (Pavithra) Create a Slack channel for Season of Docs
- [ ] **(Philipp) Comment on existing ipwidgets docs**
- [ ] **(Philipp) Chase up Jim about ipywidgets blog post**
- [ ] **(Mateusz) Look in to keeping OTP token turned for NPM**

## 08 Apr

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp*

### Agenda

- Slack / Delete Gitter and Zulip
    - bokeh-dev.slack.com
- GSoC slot request
- NPM tokens?
- Google Season of Docs

### Updates

#### Mateusz

* Working on bokehjs testing infrastrucure
  * `await view.ready` now waits for deferred rendering to finish
  * added tests for a few recent PRs merged without proper testing
  * image diff test infrastructure merged but not enabled yet due to unresolved platform differences
* Working on data-aware color bars
* Working on making bokehjs shadow DOM and web component compatible
* Allow to update `FactorRange.factors`

#### Philipp

* Fix Django Server by switching to CDN resources by default and then get proper fix in

#### Bryan

* 2 small PRs closed
* Slack setup
* GsoC things
* Working on automating releases

#### Carolyn

* Work on Jupyter blog post

### Actions

* [ ] *(Philipp) Comment on existing ipwidgets docs*
* [x] *(Pavithra) Add FDV Notebook for chapter 1*
* [ ] (Philipp) Chase up Jim about ipywidgets blog post
* [ ] (Mateusz) Look in to keeping OTP token turned for NPM
* [x] (Philipp) Create issue about token encryption and whitelisting cookies
* [x] (Bryan) Try to get shadow DOM complete example from Discourse user

## 01 Apr

*Attending: Bryan, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp*

### Agenda

- New hackmd note for April?
- GSoC review period
- Credential spill
- Release automation questions

### Updates

#### Philipp

- Look at Django integration (extend extension serving to Django)
- Experiments with multiple kernels for ipywidgets integrations

#### Mateusz

- Docs/widgets for ipywidgets
- Experiments with multiple kernels for ipywidgets integrations
- Fixed issue with reloading saved content
- Multiple BokehJs versions per page

#### Bryan

- 2.0.1 released
- Automation work releases
- Look at the GSoC ideas page
- Re-deployed demo site on Elastic Beanstalk

### Actions

* [x] (Bryan) this content to new April HackMD note
* [x] (Bryan) ping Chris Holdgraf about nbviewer
    - issue ongoing, removed nbviewer.org links
* [x] (Bryan) reply above GSoC selection (before next meeting)
* [x] (Mateusz) Add issue about NPM publishing
* [ ] (Philipp) Comment on existing ipwidgets docs
* [ ] (Pavithra) Add FDV Notebook for chapter 1
