# Q3 2020 / Weekly Sync

## Minutes

HackMD: https://hackmd.io/@bokeh/rk0Dlqikw

GitHub Archive: [minutes/weekly-sync/2020-Q3.md](https://github.com/bokeh/pm/blob/master/minutes/weekly-sync/2020-Q3.md)

## Links

* [July](#July)
* [August](#August)

---
# August

* [05-Aug](#05-Aug)

## 05-Aug

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, James, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp*

### Agenda

- Release schedule
    - Code freeze on Monday
    - Release after a week

### Updates

#### Mateusz

- working on improvements to tickers
- continuing fixing legacy bundles
- fixed outstanding regressions
- finished copy to clipboard feature
- multiple bug fixes
- trying to upgrade to TS 3.9

#### Pavithra

- Submitted Pydata sprint proposal
- Some work on the CZI proposal
- Looked into some other grants

#### Bryan 

- Submitted CZI proposal
- Finished Float32 typed array work
- Some code de-dupe
- Engaged w/ PyLadies AMS about a Bokeh event
- Pushed 2.2dev7 release

#### Carolyn

- 2.2 blog post in progress; please lmk if there's anything you really want in there
- Very nice new showcase entry: app for oceanographic research
- StackShare - will post on Discourse

### Actions

- [ ] (Bryan) issue for PEP versioning for dev nd rc version
- [ ] (Carolyn) post on Discourse about StackShare and see what happens
 
---

# July

* [29-Jul](#29-Jul)
* [22-Jul](#15-Jul)
* [15-Jul](#15-Jul)
* [08-Jul](#08-Jul)
* [01-Jul](#01-Jul)

## 29-Jul

*Attending: Bryan, James, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp*

### Agenda

- Timeline for GSoD
    - Announcement mid-August
- Naming convention discussion
    - Alias xaxis -> x_axis and xgrid -> x_grid
    - May cause confusion on support forums
    - Deprecation cycle would have to be very long, 3.0 and 4.0
    - Issue #10332
- SlickGrid changes/updates
- 

### Updates

#### Mateusz

- fixing compatibility issues in legacy bundle
- upgraded SlickGrid to the most recent version
- finalizing several open PRs
- support for 2d color arrays

#### Pavithra

- CZI proposal work
- checked out pydata sprints

#### Bryan

- merge initial webgl cleanup and isolation
- CZI proposal work 

#### Philipp

- Working on SlickGrid updates
    - Ability to fix/freeze rows/columns
    - Improvements for column sizing
    - Improvements to responsive grid behavior
    - Expose pagination support

#### James

- Trying to find funding for various Bokeh features

### Actions

- [x] (Pavithra) Sign up for Pydata sprint
- [x] (Pavithra) Contact Sumana
- [x] (Bryan) Cut dev build release

## 22-Jul

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp*

### Agenda
- Pydata global cfp, sprints open (deadline 2nd Aug)

### Updates

#### Bryan
- CZI application
- GSoD ranking
- WebGL

#### Philipp
- Lightning talk
- return to current open PRs

#### Pavithra
- PR to fix blog links, correct old post date
- Tweaked the medium publication page
- GSoD Selection form
- Reach out to survey responders

#### Carolyn
- reminders out on various platforms re biosciences survey (blog, twitter, LI); will do one more round of reminders before close (end of July)
- GSOD review and ranking

#### Mateusz
- finishing colormapping work
- improvements to tickers for 2.2
- return to open PRs

### Actions

- [x] (Bryan) Forward CZI docs to Mateusz
- [x] (Pavithra) Summarize biosciences survey results
- [x] (Pavithra) Add testing to maintenance section of the CZI proposal

## 15-Jul

*Attending: Ayush, Bryan, Carolyn, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Sumana*

### Agenda

- CZI discussion
    - Focus on user effect/impact
    - Notes recorded by Pavithra
- BEP 6 discussion
    - To be ratified today with short-circuit note for NF/financial decisions
- branching/milestones
    - continue discussion (#10177)
- Milestone review
    - 17 issues left
    - August 3rd code freeze

### Updates

#### Bryan

- Small bugfixes (line selection)
- CZI proposal writing

#### Mateusz

- finalizing color mapping work
    - added visual tests
- early WIP implementation of DOM/CSS isolation (shadow DOM)
- allow to change all properties of sub-glyphs
    - e.g. change radius of hover glyph when base glyph is `Circle`
    - possibly allow sub-glyphs of different/similar shape altogether
- don't render axes with invalid ranges (`range.{start,end}` is `NaN`)
- fixed an issue with toolbar being rerendered on every mouse move
- fixed SVG canvas composing and SVG export

#### Pavithra

- Looked into CZI proposal
- Participated in scipy sprint

### Actions

- [x] (Pavithra) Fix blog links to point to medium
- [ ] (Pavithra) Reach out to survey responders

## 08-Jul

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, Jim, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp*

### Agenda

### Updates

- Release timeline
- GSOC update
- Reminders for Biosciences survey

#### Pavithra

- We had the call w Sumana
- Moved all blogs to Medium \o/
- Working on Sprint resources

#### Carolyn

- Scipy plenary session update
- Start on 2.2 blog post

#### Philipp

- Demoing things at Scipy
- EqHist colormapper work
- Document events (start, busy, done)

#### Bryan

- Deprecated Oval Glyph
- Get Docs build clean again
- Started Draft BEP for branch and release process
- Experiments with ReGL
- Contract for Sumana CZI work

#### Mateusz

- fixed jupyter's issue with `# Bokeh`
- experimental work on scalable text
- finishing a dozen of currently open PRs
- fixing legacy browser support

### Actions

- [ ] (Bryan) issue for Bokeh protocol elevation
- [x] (Pavithra) Look into splitting up the hackmd note
- [x] (Bryan) schedule call to go over CZI proposal
- [ ] (Carolyn) Put out reminders on various platforms re Bokeh in Biosciences survey


## 01-Jul

*Attending: Ayush, Bryan, Jim, Mateusz, Pavithra, Phillip*

### Agenda
- Retire Zulip instance? (no activity for ~2 months: https://bokeh.zulipchat.com/stats)
- Scipy 2020 Sprint - 11th, 12th July
- Next release planning
    - **end of July/ 1st week of Aug**
- Kaleido project from Jon Mease
- CZI status

### Updates

#### Bryan

- Updated various deployment scripts
- Published Draft of BEP 7: Decision Making
- Will work on BEP 8: Privacy policy draft next
- Fixed a docs build issue on Windows
- Did forward merge of 2.1.1 changes to branch-2.2

#### Mateusz

- exploratory work towards support for webworkers
    - this includes DOM-less environments in general
- preliminary work to restore legacy bundles
- improved performance of tooltip rendering
    - do NOT use `innerHTML` due to its abysmal performance
    - reduce DOM node allocations; reuse nodes when possible
- redesigned "materialization" of data specs in glyphs
    - explicit instead of implicit (no more `this._xs != null` style checks)
    - enforce usage of typed arrays further more (on top of earlier changes)
    - use in-place array transforms where applicable
- continued work on filtering and efficient indexing
- improved initialization speed with faster `HasProps.setv()`
- partial fix to bundling issues of luma.gl
- restored bokehjs' codebase linting in CI
- allowed to resize baseline images in visual tests
- fixed multiple recent regressions

#### Pavithra

- Imported+published more blogs
    - Medium was sending notifications for backdated post, so contacted their support
- Contacted Sumana for grant-writing help
- Started some preparatory work for SciPy Sprints -- screencasts and curating GFIs
- Published the survey form

#### Philipp

- Looking at encrypting JWT token somehow
- Some progress on histogram equalization colormapper
- Still planning on looking on Django server cleanup

#### Ayush

- Working on InfoPane

#### JimB

- Interesting new static-image export capabilities being developed by Jon Mease; hoping we can follow up on those.
- Looks like Jean-Luc and Mateusz's generalizations of colormapping are finally getting ready to deliver, thanks to some last-minute fixes from Philipp. Should make lots of cool client-side functionality available.
- Blog on ipywidgets before SciPy?


### Actions

- [ ] (Phillip) make issue about OAUTH tokens
- [ ] (Bryan) Make build automation triggerable on CI action
- [x] (Bryan) scipy blog suggestion to Carolyn
- [x] (Bryan, Pavithra) retire Zulip
- [x] (Bryan, Carolyn, Pavithra) Set up call w/ Sumara to discuss CZI
