https://github.dev/bokeh/pm/tree/main/minutes/weekly-sync/2021.md

----

* [January](#January)
* [February](#Februry)
* [March](#March)
* [April](#April)
* [May](#May)
* [June](#June)
* [July](#July)
* [August](#August)
* [September](#September)
* [October](#October)
* [November](#November)
* [December](#Devember)

---

# September

* [01-Sep](#01-Sep)
* [08-Sep](#08-Sep)


## 08-Sep

*Attending: Bryan, Iury, Jim, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

- 2.4 release
  - postpone until Monday Sep 13
  - blockers: legacy bundles, remaining mathtext PR

### Updates

#### Bryan

- PR to speed up docs build ~2x
  - `make clean html serve SPHINXOPTS="-v -j auto"`
- PR to split up and speed up `bokeh.plotting` ref docs
  - live plots per-glyph removed now (just code blocks)
-  PR later today to fix docstring rendering on narrow viewports
   -  https://github.com/pydata/pydata-sphinx-theme/issues/464

#### Iury

- Conveniences PR
  - bringing up to parity with MathJax examples
  - render mathtext in the middle of strings
  - Div widget to use SVG mathjax output
- Issue triaging

#### Philipp

- PR cache busting for extensions
- out next week

#### Mateusz

- fixing legacy bundles
  - need testing help
- PR for support for vectorized `globalAlpha`
- misc SVG backend fixes
- updated baselines for new Chrome version
  - now have conistent Chrome across CI

#### Pavithra

- testing with Dask (all looks OK)
- help with QuestionScout

#### Timo

- big dev docs PR merged
- working on mathtext documentation
- helping test with IE on windows

### Actions

- [ ] (Mateusz) will release `jupyter_bokeh`

## 01-Sep

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, Iury, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

- 2.4 release

### Updates

#### Bryan

- Adding metadata and summaries to gallery examples
- Drafting release blog post
- Finished Document / refs cleanup
    - secondary issues w/ Panel sorted

#### Iury

- Fixing issue for axis label overrides Dict and TextLike
- Looking at adding mathtext support to `Div` for 2.4
- Issue triage

#### Timo

- Updating docs for current state of mathtext support
- developers guide, need feedback on testing section

#### Philipp

- looking at memory leaks, found issue related to Numba/Cuda
- working on Panel release to coincide with Bokeh 2.4
- small `Server` improvements for programmatic
  - customize application

#### Mateusz

- layout-related work
  - support for drag and drop (experiments)
  - looking at context menu support
- tooltips on widgets (not cut off by viewport)
- vectorized global_alpha (also related SVG bug)
- typescript update to 4.4final
- toolbar/menuitems respect tab order
- PR to add mathml input to mathtext work (possibly ascii math)
- tool icon support

### Actions

- [ ] (Philipp) make issue regarding session destruction (including numba concerns)

# August

* [04-Aug](#04-Aug)
* [11-Aug](#11-Aug)
* [18-Aug](#11-Aug)
* [25-Aug](#11-Aug)

## 25-Aug

*Attending: Bryan, Jim, Iury, Mateusz, Philipp*

### Agenda

- 2.4 release
  - planned date 2021-09-08

### Updates

#### Bryan

- Archived `bokeh/gloo2`, deleted `bokeh/FDV-Notebooks`
    - would like to save tarballs of archived repos to s3 and delete
- PR to update Dask downstream CI job
- Finished PR to remove callback reference cycles

#### Iury

- Working on Bokeh MathJax bundle
  - decide what to do with CDNProvider
  - ran into issue with non-ascii encodings
- Conveniences PR
  - work on transform approach next
- issue triage

#### Philipp

- No updates
- Will look at cleanup and extra path PRs

#### Mateusz

- Work on layout (PRs next week)
- PR for tab indexing on toolbar buttons
- PR for tab/panel hide
- Looking at other math parsers (ascii math, mathml)

### Actions

## 18-Aug

*Attending: Pavithra, Iury, Philipp, Mateusz, Timo, Marco, Jim*

### Agenda

### Updates

#### Iury

- Issue triaging
- Working on MathJax bokeh bundle
- Python conveniences for LaTeX

#### Mateusz

- restored webgl bundle (PR #11371)
    - generally improved support for loading optional bundles
- fixed a critical bug in `SpatialIndex.bounds()` (PR #11510)
- upgraded TypeScript to 4.4-rc (PR #11503)
    - migrated to new static initializer syntax (`static {}`)
- finalized PRs #11453, #11468, #11456
- finalized support for mixed scales/axes in one dimension (PR #11020)
- added initial support for visually testing tiles in bokehjs (a part of PR #11468)
- investigated issues related to bokehjs crashing when using log axes (e.g. issue #11291)
- still working on migration to `TextBox` (of e.g. legends)
- working on proper grid plot support
- attempted to get basic glyph decorations ready for 2.4 (PR #11122)
- helping with speeding up progress on PR #11466 and #11496

#### Timo

- Working on dev documentation, dev tools server and infrastructure
- Syncing with Mateusz on testing infrastructure

#### Bryan

- More work to `bokeh.document`
    - still working on factoring callbacks to fix last ref cycle
- PRs for some CI/build issues
    - we now use PEP440 versions e.g `2.4.0dev1+5.a85ma9a-dirty`
- PR to remove no-longer usable Wikimedia tile provider
- Fixed issue with `Either` and property container wrappers
- Support an PR review
- Finished PR for `TableColumn.visible`
- Released `2.4.0dev4`

### Actions

## 11-Aug

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, Iury, James, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

- 2.4 Milestone triage

### Updates

#### Bryan

- Bokeh/Dask PRs to resolve a recent kwarg-only incompatibility
- Cleanup PRs for addressing reference cycles/memory leaks
    - split `model.py` up in to a submodule
- PR to check correct base branch on deploy job runs

#### Carolyn

- PR in (to be added to) to add ReST formatted docstrings to gallery examples

#### Mateusz

- redesigned `MathText` around async edges (PR #11480, PR #11495)
- improved/robustified recently added SVG tests (PR #11465)
- robustified `OpenURL`'s unit tests (PR #11488)
- working on tests for multiple recent bugfix PRs
- working again on a redesign of `Legend` with layout and text box
- working again on single canvas grid plots

#### Iury

- add `MathJax` bundle #11496
- Issues triaging

#### Timo

- Dev docs update

#### Philipp

- looking into fixing ipywigets-bokeh
- patch release for panel
- adding panel to downstream

### Actions

- [ ] (Bryan) Make a new "PR Open" label
    - want to re-eval this and make sure it's not extra process
- [ ] (Mateusz) Open discussion about new label

## 04-Aug

*Attending: Mateusz, Bryan, Carolyn, Timo, Philipp, Jim, Iury*

### Agenda

- CZI proposal results :thumbsdown:
- accepts / pre-accepts
- Bokeh 2.4 timeline
    - one blocker: finish GL bundle
    - set up meeting to triage meeting
    - aim for early september
    - triage milestone on 8/11 meeting

### Updates

#### Bryan

- Refactor sphinxext and update to Sphinx 4.1 #11450, #11467
- Fix broken spec.py and delete cruft in scripts #11454
- Update file_input.py to not use internal events #11459
- Make hinted ColumnData events more efficient #11472
- Set up Zap using Bokeh zapier to alert on new HV release candidates
- PR to improve some Bokeh styling in Dask

#### Mateusz

- bug fixes (PR #11453, PR #11456, PR #11468, PR #11469)
- robustified bokeh's SVG tests (PR #11464)
- cleaned up PR queue (SVG and latex)
- followup improvements to SVG backend (PR #11465)
- investigating relacing selenium with native browser API
    - chromium browser familly only
    - would replace exports, bokeh integration and examples tests frameworks

#### Carolyn

- Will work with Bryan on starting examples docstrings

#### Timo

- triage, help with sphinx 4.1 update
- updating meta.yaml for conda recipe
- working on narrative docs for mathtext
- continue working on dev docs

#### Philipp

- look at ipywidgets_bokeh incompatibility with ipykernel 6.x

#### Iury

- Issues triaging
- WIP: python conveniences for LaTeX.

### Actions

- [ ] (Timo/Bryan/Mateusz): Review Mathtext project progress (Issue for LaTeX progress: https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/11355 - all LaTeX-related issues: https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/discussions/11191 -  Overall CZI project: https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/projects/12)
- [x] (Bryan) Issue for accepts / pre-accepts

# July

* [07-July](#07-July)
* [14-July](#14-July)
* [21-July](#21-July)
* [28-July](#28-July)

## 28-July

*Attending: Bryan, Iury, Jim, Mateusz, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

### Updates

#### Bryan

- PR to deploy dev docs per release branch
- PR for sphinxext refactor (and fix jumpy anchors)
- PR to clean up Dask Dashboard Bokeh usage
- Blackstone / NF catchup
- Reviews and support

#### Mateusz

- catching up and reviewing PRs

#### Iury

- Testing SVG backend Styling methods, ids, drawImage
- Add HTMLElement assertions to bokehjs test framework
- update old svg backend tests
- Issues triage
- Latex on tick labels PR#11420

#### Philipp

- Starting to look at adding websocket disconnect event and adding js callbacks on Document (for WebsocketDisconnect and DocumentReady events)

#### Timo

- Update dev docs, focus on running tests locally

### Actions


## 21-July

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, Iury, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

### Updates

#### Bryan

- small cleanup PR
- Scipy: BoF, NF sponsor booth, and sprints
- PR reviews
- working on some Dask cleanup

#### Carolyn

- examples PR; gallery docstring PR

#### Iury

- Testing SVG backend Paths and Transforms PR#11437 PR#11427
- SciPy: Sprint
- Issues triage
- Latex on tick labels PR#11420

#### Philipp

- Released Panel 0.12.0 (https://blog.holoviz.org/panel_0.12.0.html)
- Trying to arrange meeting with NumFOCUS and Blackstone to discuss their funding

#### Pavithra

- Presented roadmap update at Scipy

#### Timo

- Scipy sprints
- Working on developer docs, landing page, set up
- Started discussion for git precommit hooks

### Actions

- [x] Forward Dask info about pre-commit hooks

## 14-July

*Attending: *Brendan, Bryan, Carolyn, Iury, Marco, Pavithra, Timo*

### Agenda

- 2.3.3 retro
- Scipy events
    - Sprint saturday
    - NumFoCUS maintainers table
    - Tools Track update
    - Vis BOF

### Updates

#### Timo

- Working on dev doc refactor
- Organizing sprint for SciPy
- Triage

#### Brendan

- Organizing sprint for Scipy

#### Iury

- LaTeX to tick labels (PR #11420)
- Testing state management methods of SVG backend (PR pending)
- Improving svg backend
- Updated MathText class to implement GraphicsBox
- Good first Issues triage for SciPy sprint

#### Carolyn

- Finishing up PR for gallery detail incorporating docstrings

#### Pavithra

- Prepare scipy tools track talk

#### Bryan

- PR for LegendItem.visble (plus fix new minimal-deps build issue)
- PR to remove OrderedDict (plus clean up fourier_animated.py example)
- Updated and re-deployed demo site to move off deprecated AWS platform branch
- Scipy Vis BOF today

### Actions

## 07-July

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, Iury, James, Marco, Mateusz, Timo*

### Agenda

- Release schedule
    - 2.3.3 release today

### Updates

#### Bryan

- expand categorical docs
- finish token PR
- release notes and finish 2.3.3 release

#### Iury

- tests for SVG Backend - Transformations PR #11401
- add ellipse to SVG backend PR #11405
- Fix SVG backend moveTo if called before beginPath #11407
- LaTeX branch update to most recent base branch PR #11128
- issue triage

#### Carolyn

- fixed LGTM issues
- working on Sphinx gallery docstrings PR
- will publish release announce today

#### Timo

- edited categorical docs
- issue triage

#### Marco

- issue triage

#### Mateusz

- mostly working on 2.3.3 this week
- helping Iury w/ PRs

### Actions

- [x] (Bryan) Update BEP-1 to documents new tags in an ongoing GH discussion
- [ ] (Mateusz) Remove "Needs Backport" tags
- [ ] (Iury) Discussion for mathext on tick labels (update https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/discussions/11191 ?)

# June

* [02-June](#02-June)
* [09-June](#09-June)
* [16-June](#16-June)
* [23-June](#23-June)
* [30-June](#30-June)

## 30-June

*Attending: Bryan, Iury, Jame, Marco, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

- Release schedule
    - 2.3.3 needs layout and font issues, looking at release early next week
    - Should re-eval 2.4 milestone soon

### Updates

#### Philipp

- Off next week

#### Timo

- Updating dev docs, made issue with proposed outline ([#11354](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/11354))
- Issue triage


#### Mateusz

- fixed issue with dropdown menu being obscured (PR #11388)
- fixed computation of bounds in `SpatialIndex` (PR #11379)
    - bug resulted in wrong bounds being computed by glyphs
- allowed tabs to scroll to the initial active tab if off-screen (PR #11391)
- added support for vertically orientend button groups (PR #11390)
    - moves `orientation` property from `Widget` to `OrientedControl`
- CDN URLs for extensions are now pinned to extension's version (PR #11387)
- attempted to restore support for relative font units (e.g `em`) (issue #11110)
- still working on layout related regressions (issues too many to count)
- backported all PRs merged so far, with changes targetted for 2.3.3 (PR #11377)

#### Iury
 - Removed mathjax cdn version from bokehjs/test, now using the NPM version (PR #11128)
 - Updated baselines for Latex on axis labels (PR #11128)
 - Unit testing svg backend engine (PR #11337)
 - Presented at Python Floripa
 - Issues triage

#### Bryan

- issue triage, user support
- feedback, comments on issues and proposals
- will look at token PR final tasks

#### Pavithra

- Work on scipy update talk

### Actions

## 23-June

*Attending: Brendan, Bryan, Carolyn, Ian, Iury, Jim, Marco, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

- (late discussion) shoot for 2.3.3 release next week with targetted fixes

### Updates

#### Bryan

- no updates, working on some docs related issues

#### Carolyn

- helping w/ Discourse
    - asking for help w/ recent questions

#### Brendan

- presentations for finding new Bokeh contributors

#### Timo

- opened issues for second half of CZI R3
- emailed tcaswell about CZI reporting

#### Iury

- working on unit/intgration tests for latex PR
- integration test issue with idle, events

#### Ian

- thinking about webgl roadmap
    - fixing issues with current glyphs
    - move on to other glyphs
    - separate bundles / minify shaders

#### Philipp

- work on token issue this week
- looking in to JSON serializer

#### Mateusz

- restored webgl bundle (PR #11371)
    - revealed issue with module bundler and cycle detection
- fixed a bug in `LinearInterpolationScale` (PR #11370)
- fixed legend rendering of `Ellipse` glyph (PR #11368)
- working on layout regression fixes
    - reverted all changes since `ColorBar` improvements and started from scratch
- continuing work on text box in legends, etc.

#### Pavitha

- Meeting this week to discuss scipy talk

### Actions

- [x] (Pavithra, Bryan) Discussion for Scipy Tools Track talk
- [ ] (Philipp) dev topic for serialization
- [ ] (Ian) Start discussion on javascript/wasm tesselation

## 16-June

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, Ian, Jim, Marco, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

- SciPy Sprints

### Updates

#### Mateusz

- wrapped first round of statically typing bokeh (PR #11237, #11290, #11330, #11332, #11341)
- redesigning legend, etc. to work with `TextBox`
- added support for rounded corners to `Rect` glyph (PR pending)
- investigated how to automate the benchmark from PR #11343 with devtools

#### Bryan

- Fixed CI automation for dev builds
- Add version to `json_items`  #11340
- PR reviews and issue/support triage
- Review H2 CZI R3 detailed goals

#### Marco

- Working on the CZI report
- Iury will give a Bokeh presentation at Floripa meetup

#### Ian

- PR for webgl rects and markers (PR #11343)

#### Jim

- Jim proposed vis [BOF at Scipy](https://www.scipy2021.scipy.org/bof-sessions) (accepted)

#### Pavithra

- Raised awareness of Scipy Sprints

#### Timo

- Planning H2 for CZI R3
- PR to document visual testing for BokehJS
- upcoming PR to revamp dev docs

#### Philipp

- Try to finish token size PR

### Actions

- [ ] (Pavithra, Bryan) Discussion for Scipy Tools Track talk

## 09-June

*Attending: Bryan, Ian, Iury, Jim, Mateusz, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

- Scipy updates

### Updates

#### Ian

- started work on perf improvements for webgl markers (PR in a few days)

#### Jim

- FYI: Some issues incoming from HV users

#### Iury

- Research latex rendering in webworkers
    - example in persona GH
- Ran into issues w/ visual testing and mathtext rendering
- Had a meeting to discuss planning

#### Timo

- Met w/ mateusz and iury
- Working on docs for visual tests
    - good feedback from mateusz, iury, and ian
- Call today to discuss second half of R3 grant

#### Bryan

- Off last week

#### Philipp

- No updates, looking to finish token PR

#### Mateusz

- fixed Chrome 91 baselines and CI configuration issue
    - investigated how to maintain specific version of Chrome in CI
    - investigated switching image baseline storage to git lfs
- wraping up existing work on statically typing bokeh
- re-gearing towards work related to text rendering
- minor progress on layout work

### Actions

---

## 02-June

*Attending: Ian, Iury, Marco, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

- Discuss workflow for dealing with 2.4 or 3.0 branches
    - Wait on Bryan
- Should LaTeX support for things other than axis labels etc. wait on Textbox support?
    - Mateusz: May have to wait for 3.0
    - Discuss with Bryan
- Are there ways to do the LaTeX rendering in a webworker i.e. without a DOM engine?
    - Iury to look into this

### Updates

#### Ian

- No updates

#### Iury

- On LaTeX PR after Bryan's review, adding unit and visual on JS side

#### Pavithra

- No updates

#### Timo

- Working on documenting visual testing on BokehJS side (PR #11304, looking for feedback)

#### Philipp

- Working on PR to reduce JWT token size and warn if it is excessively large (PR )
- Fixed jupyter_bokeh NPM bundle (dist directory was not included in 3.0.0) and released 3.0.2
- Working on JupyterLab Panel Preview extension which also works for Bokeh ()

#### Mateusz

- upgraded TypeScript to 4.3 (final) (PR #11314)
    - upgraded other dependencies
    - refreshed all `package-lock.json` files
- wrote first draft of the new layout design ([wiki](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/wiki/CSS-Layout-Design))
- wrote Python static typing "guide" ([wiki](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/wiki/Python-Typing-Best-Practices))
- continued work on static typing of bokeh's codebase (PR #11290)
- started `branch-3.0` and rebased legacy/layout PRs on top of it

### Actions

---

# May

* [26-May](#26-May)
* [19-May](#19-May)
* [12-May](#12-May)
* [05-May](#05-May)

## 26-May

*Attending: Bryan, Ian, Iury, Mateusz, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

### Updates

#### Bryan

- Submitted both CZI applications
- Caught up on Discourse support questions
- Tried to cut 2.4dev1
  - learned docs build now has new dependencies for sampledata
- helped with "long token" issue

#### Mateusz

- working on the new layout design
- statically typed 100 bokeh modules and some tests (PR #11290)
    - it's a first rough pass, no type soundness yet
    - attempted to statically type properties (multiple attempts failed)
    - attempted to statically type models' `__init__` (limitted success)

#### Ian

 - fix regression in webgl marker rendering (PR #11297)

#### Iury
 - LaTex on axis labels (WIP PR #11128)
 - Documenting visual testing with Timo

#### Timo

- Working with Iury on visual tests docs

### Actions

- [ ] (Bryan) Issue for multiple dev doc deployments
- [ ] *(Bryan) Provide feedback to Iury about MathText (PR #11128)*
- [ ] (Mateusz) GH discussion for typing properties

## 19-May

*Attending: Brendan, Bryan, Carolyn, Ian, Iury, James, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

- 2.4 and 3.0 schedule

### Updates

#### Mateusz

- working on various layout and related tasks
- finalized redesign of `bokeh.core.validation` (PR #11254)
- finalized initial support for `pathlib.Path` (PR #11258)
- started statically typing core properties/descriptors (PR #11287)
    - will allow to eventually statically type models' `__init__()`
    - typing actual models' properties will require non-trivial work
- statically typed `bokeh.application.handlers` (PR pending)
    - a followup on `pathlib.Path` work
- cleaned up bokehjs' codebase a bit (PR #11283)
- initial take on tab indexing (toolbars, tabs, etc.)
    - trivial to do; requires focus on styling

#### Iury

- Separated view from model on MathText ts
- Size function for MathText
- Working on a module that would be responsible for loading MathJax.

#### Bryan

- CZI proposal work
- Triage and support
- To looks at Mathtext and other 2.4 tasks this week

#### Ian

- work on webgl perf regressions
    - fixed lines
    - looking at markers

#### Philipp

- No updates

#### Carolyn

- Gotten some additional LI followers, starting to post content there
- Reviving tweet cycles

#### Jim

- Work on CZI R4 proposal

### Actions

## 12-May

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, Mateusz, Iury, Philipp, Jim, Ian, Marco, Timo, Pavithra*

### Agenda

- encourage using github discussions
- PyCon mentored sprints this weekend 9am PST Sunday

### Updates

#### Bryan

- cut 2.3.2 release
- work on CZI proposals

#### Carolyn

- not much response to teacher/student bioscience survey-- please help spread the word! https://tinyurl.com/u3bzb849

#### Mateusz

- added support for `pathlib.Path` where `str` path were accepted (PR #11258)
- redesigned `core.validation` utilizing dataclasses and static typing (PR #11254)
- updated bokehjs' dependencies (due to github's security concerns) (PR #11246)
- fixed invalidation of coordinates of layoutable renderers (PR #11249)
- continued work on migration to shadow DOM/webcomponents (PR #11239)
- making progress on single canvas grid plots (PR pending)
- working on DOM/CSS layout and related overall design

#### Iury

- Working on LaTex on axis labels (WIP)

#### Timo

- CZI proposals

#### Ian

- Fixed webgl alpha-blending issues with lines (PR #11252)
- Replaced remaining old-style webgl code with ReGL (PR #11262)

### Actions


## 05-May

*Attending: Mateusz, Jim, Iury, Bryan, Timo, Ian, Philipp*

### Agenda

- Layout roadmap
    - Mateusz to work on writing up the overall vision
- Bokeh 2.3.2 release
    - Smoke testing of RC release appreciated
- When is 2.4?
    - Does layout go in? Probably in 3.0.
    - Discuss what goes in next week.

### Updates

#### Mateusz
(may miss the metting due to vaccination appointment)
- restarted work on migration to shadow DOM (PR #11239)
- upgraded to TS 4.3-dev and enabled `noImplicitOverride` (PR #11238)
- finalized initial work on layout <-> DOM integration (PR #11165)
- finalized initial work on polar coordinates support (PR #11107)
- finalized initial work on toolbar improvements (PR #11214)
- more dataclass/static typing improvements (PR #11225)

#### Bryan

- PR for fixing OpenURL escaping
- Forward ports from branch-2.3 to branch-2.4
- Had a call about accessibility

#### Iury

- Created MathText model
- Added MathText model to Axis label
- Updated Legend annotation visual tests

#### Ian

- Fixed static typing of WebGL code
- Fixing alpha blending of lines
- Improve performance of WebGL

#### Timo

- Working on CZI application
- Planning to work on documenting visual testing

#### Jim

- Working a little on the CZI proposal

#### Philipp

- Directing client to contribute to Bokeh via NumFOCUS

### Actions

* [ ] (Bryan) Provide feedback to Iury about MathText (PR #11128)


# April

* [28-Apr](#28-Apr)
* [21-Apr](#21-Apr)
* [14-Apr](#14-Apr)
* [07-Apr](#07-Apr)

## 28-Apr

*Attending: Mateusz, Brendan, Marco, Iury, Philipp, Bryan, Jim*

### Agenda

* 2.3.2 plans
    * plan for release next monday

### Updates

#### Bryan

* PR for publishing wheels (needs test on dev build)
* PR to update to isort 5.8
* Fixed Discourse outage after upgrade
* Fixed GH CI issues (removed black formatting tests)
* Started 2.4 backports (need help)
* Finished/merged HasProps cleanup PR

#### Mateusz

- continued work on layout and DOM integration
- enabled lazy annotations (PR #11220)
- preliminary usage of dataclasses (PR #11219)
    - includes static typing improvements
- unified `Figure` and `Toolbar`'s `active_*` properties (PR #11218)
- added support for toolbar's overflow menu (PR #11214)
    - simplifies toolbar rendering
    - context menu improvements
    - preliminary step towards separating tools from toolbar
- fixed edit/draw tools to work with non-linear scales (PR #11199)
- fixed support for `RadioGroup.active == null` (PR #11206)
- included hatch visuals in `Figure`'s visuals logic (PR #11202)
- finalized replacement of `plot_{width,height}` (PR #11201)
- fixed axis layout when tick lables are not painted (PR #11200)
- added support for collecting performance metrics in integration tests (PR #11195)
- made base64 ndarray encoding lazy in bokehjs' serializer (PR #11194)
    - fixes a major performance regression
- udated baselines after a major braking chromium (v90) update (PR #11189)
- finalized a fix for hatch pattern rotation bug (PR #11150)
    - fix doesn't apply to IE/legacy browsers

### Actions

- [ ] ***(Mateusz) describe glyph decoration questions***
- [ ] *(Bryan) make issue for remaining release automation*

## 21-Apr

*Attending: Bryan, Ian, Iury, James, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

* CZI R4 and DEI letters advanced
* 2.3.2 plans?

### Updates

#### Mateusz

- continued work on DOM/layout (PR #11165)
- restarted work on Python-side serialization (PR pending)
    - decouples serialization format from wire encoding (JSON)
    - adds proper support for `NaN`, `+/-oo`, `Dict[non-str, Any]`
    - adds support for dataclasses
    - will allow migration from ad-hoc dict structures to dataclasses
- restarted work on context menus (PR pending)
    - allows to access tools if toolbar is not present/visible

#### Bryan

- Last PR for HasProps cleanup for now
- Docs PR to add autoclasstoca and fix collapsible blocks
- A lot of support questions

#### Philipp

- Automaing release process for jupyter-bokeh
- Testing with HasProps PR

#### Iury

- Adding visual tests
- Working on Latex Model

#### Timo

- Bioscience survey is out
- Updating docs: plot width and height

#### Pavithra

- In contact with Outreachy

### Actions

- [ ] ***(Mateusz) describe glyph decoration questions***
- [ ] *(Bryan) make issue for remaining release automation*
- [x] (Timo) make issue for grid plot width/height args
- [x] (Bryan) Set up Meeting Friday for CZI, forward CZI emails


## 14-Apr

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, Ian, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

### Updates

#### Bryan

- Published 2.3.1 release
- More PRs for docs and docs build improvements
    - fix collapsible code block
    - add autoclasstoc
- PR to clean up codebase tests and add JSON test
- Finished and merged RangesUpdate PR

#### Carolyn
- survey forms for bioscience students/teachers ready to go out; wider net than previous respondents?

#### Mateusz

- working on the DOM <-> layout interface (PR #11165)
    - added support for tooltip templating
    - added support for embedding layouts in tooltips
- working on improving performance of properties' system
- fixed hatch pattern rendering under rotation (PR #11150)
- continuing work on multiple open recent PRs

#### Philipp

- will look at NPM release for BokehJS
- also automation for ipywidgets extension

#### Ian

- rectangles for webgl using hatching
- plan to fill in gaps in current implementations

#### Pavithra

- waiting on CZI results

#### Timo

- working on docs improvements
- bioscience survey

### Actions

- [x] *(Mateusz) issue for Pathlib support throughout*
- [ ] *(Mateusz) describe glyph decoration questions*
- [ ] (Bryan) make issue for remaining release automation

## 07-Apr

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, Ian, Iury, James, Mateusz, Pavithra*

### Agenda

* 2.3.1 release

### Updates

#### Bryan

- cut 2.3.1rc release candidate
- performed remaining forward ports
- PR with misc refguide doc improvements
- Old PR housekeeping

#### Mateusz

- fix or worked around layout regressions (PR #11123)
- removed all cyclic module dependencies from bokehjs (PR #11140)
    - cycle detection is now enabled by default
- added support for data URLs and `pathlib.Path` to Image property (PR #11141)
- added preliminary support for glyph decorations (PR #11122)
- started working on an API for defining custom scatter markers (PR pending)
- continued work on coordinate systems and layout
- benchmarking bokehjs with large number of models (e.g. up to 1000 glyphs)
    - properties and signaling systems have to be redesigned

#### Iury

- final changes and merged Latex example PR
- Initial WIP PR starting Latex labels
- Working w/ Mateusz about tests

#### Ian

- WebGL rect and quad hatching
- Some time on contouring ongoing

#### Jim / Philipp

- working on automating jupyter-bokeh
- [Lumen](https://lumen.holoviz.org/)!

#### Pavithra

- Outreachy questionare

### Actions

- [ ] (Mateusz) issue for Pathlib support throughout
- [ ] (Mateusz) describe glyph decoration questions
- [x] (Bryan) Add NPM secrets to jupyter extension

# March

* [24-Mar](#17-Mar)
* [17-Mar](#17-Mar)
* [10-Mar](#10-Mar)
* [03-Mar](#03-Mar)

## 24-Mar

*Attending: Mateusz, Bryan, Iury, James, Ian, Timo*

### Agenda

- Remove Azure Pipelines?

### Updates

#### Bryan

- Rotated GH_TOKEN (switched to bokeh-integrations acct)
- Rotated ANACONDA_TOKEN (about to expire)
- Updated deprecated role on AWS Elastic Beanstalk
- PR for more HasProps and misc cleanup
- helped publish and clean up tracker for jupyter_bokeh

#### Mateusz

- added support for `node make test:integration --ref GIT_REF` (PR #11099)
- finished updating bokehjs' plotting API (PR #11018)
- finished fixing serialization regression (PR #11066)
- further simplifications and code reduction in glyph rendering (PR #11090)
- fixed repeated `DataModel` registration issue (PR pending)
- continued work on layout related tasks (grid plots in particular)
- early work on glyph decoration support (e.g. adding arrow heads to any glyphs)

#### Iury

- work on LaTeX rendering
- crate visual tests (with input from Mateusz) and record info for dev docs update

#### Timo

- help with grant applications

#### Ian

- progress on webgl markers
- planning to look at hatching in webgl
- aware that webgl lines regressions should be fixed for 2.4 release

### Actions


## 17-Mar

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, Ian, Mateusz, Pavithra, Timo*

### Agenda

- Ajay (cuxfilter) working on DataModel blog post
- Ian Thomas and Iury added to **@bokeh/dev**

### Updates

#### Mateusz

- primarily working on the redesign of the layout
    - restoring old `GridPlot` and related work
- further improvements (simplifications) to glyph rendering (PR #11069)
    - improvements to NaN/oo handling
    - simplified creation of spatial index
- cleaned up bokehjs from obsolete prefixed CSS properties (PR #11073)
- fixed `ColorPicker` to set the initial color according to web spec (PR #11065)
- fixed selection overlay when selection starts outside the frame (PR #11055)
- fixed reuse of existing SVG nodes in SVG backend (PR #11046)
    - previously worked on first render and failed on subsequent
- fixed subsequent fills on the same path in SVG backend (PR #11069)
- working on plot layout update regressions (issue #11033)
- fixed serialization of `MessageSent` document event (WIP) (PR #11066)


#### Bryan

- Small fix for `snap_back` for tile renderers
- Deprecated HSL object
- Small docs updates / continue working on Sphinx theme
- Meetings, discussions for next CZI rounds, contract for Sumana
- Made a stab at jupyter_bokeh update
- Cleared current outstanding forward ports

#### Carolyn

- Several new showcases! Including one embedding an app in Vue; integration examples always welcome
- Next steps on Gallery redesign?
- Need project updates for NF newsletter

#### Pavithra

- CZI discussions
    - creating LOI drafts

#### Timo

- CZI discussions
- work on Sphinx theme
- Helping on Iury's PRs

#### Ian

- webgl work
    - merged ReGL PR
- made new issues

### Actions

[ ] (Carolyn) look at Sphinx PR in the context of gallery reorg

## 10-Mar

*Attending: Bryan, Bryan's cat, Iury, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

- 2.3.1 timeline, issues
    * next Monday
- new CZI grants

### Updates

#### Mateusz

- improving cohesion between bokeh and bokehjs (PR #11018)
- continued reseach work on ESM bundles (PR #11017)
    - made embed work with individual ESM modules
    - experimental support for asynchronous model loading
- working on recent regressions and other bugs (PR #10999, #11005, #11030, ...)
- simplified rendering path of `Line` and `MultiLine` glyphs (PR #11024)
- working on mysteriously failing examples' tests (PR #11024)
- proof of concept work on allowing multiple scales per dimension (PR #11020)
    - really needs sub-coordinates
- improved speed of bokehjs' visual tests (PR #11019)
    - there's quite a bit of room for further improvements
- experimenting with incremental TypeScript builds (PR #11004)
    - significanly improves bokehjs' compilation times
    - sadly, increases compilation of tests
- trying to get pypy tested in CI (PR #11039)

#### Bryan

- Fixed properties cleanup / units docs PR
- set up PEX card for NF account charges (e.g recurring infra)
- wrote up some ideas about new CZI grant opportunities
- Issue triage and support

#### Iury

- Mathjax integration
- Ading latex custom extension example (PR: #11023)

#### Timo

- Include Latex example in the docs

### Actions

## 03-Mar

*Attending: Brendan, Bryan, Carolyn, Iury, James, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

- Release re-cap
- 2.3.1 release
    - about 2 weeks from now
- [Changelog management](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/10958)
- [Versioning scheme](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/10983)
- New CZI rounds
    - question about scope (bioscience only still?)
    - survey last year (answers can be looked at again)
- Medium blog to custom domain?
    - Plan to set up as blog.bokeh.org
- 2.4 vs "3.0" next release?
    - Need further dicussion

### Updates

#### Bryan

- Closed PRs for:
    - drop Python 3.6 support
    - update to versioneer 0.19
    - fix broken cloudfront invalidation
    - remove SRI hashes
    - cleanup properties (part 1)
    - dask legend regression fix
- New PR for updating to official pydata-sphinx-theme
- Discussions for:
    - changelog management
    - versioning scheme
- performed outstanding back- and forward ports

#### Carolyn

- Embarking upon new project to organize Gallery so that it can have new examples
- Will open GH issue to solicit ideas and feedback

#### Mateusz

- updated TypeScript to 4.2 and other bokehjs' dependencies
- fixed handling of empty files in `FileInput`
   - general refactoring and added tests
- research and design work on ESM bundle support
   - experimented with hoisted/flattened module structure (rollup)
- design work towards splitting up models from views in bokehjs
   - first step towards having a nodejs API for bokehjs
- early research and design work on CSS layout
- started rewriting legend in terms of the layout

#### Iury

- Working on LaTex support implementation
    - Testing including a latex engine
    - Testing using a latex server

#### Philipp

- Panel 0.11 released
- try to work on jupyter extensions this week

#### Brendan

- lots of meetings and presentations

### Timo

- lots of small docs issues


### Actions

- [ ] (bryan) Issue to make downstream tests visibles
- [ ] (bryan, brendan) meeting for CZI new round

---

# February

* [24-Feb](#24-Feb)
* [17-Feb](#17-Feb)
* [10-Feb](#10-Feb)
* [03-Feb](#03-Feb)

## 24-Feb

*Attending: Brendan, Bryan, Carolyn, Iury, Marco, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp*

### Agenda

### Updates

#### Brendan

- Timo updated the docs for the 2.3 release (mostry on selecting colors and working with arrows), and also helped with the release notes.
- Timo will work on some smaller docs updates based on new and updated features in Bokeh 2.3, and will start some research into LaTeX stuff for CZI.

#### Mateusz

- finalized (for now) work on text rendering and labeling (PR #10828, PR #10922)
- fixed recent regressions and release related issues (PR #10938, PR #10936, PR #10929)
- bumped mimimum required version of nodejs to 14+ (PR #10923)
- early WIP (for 2.5) dropping support for IE and legacy web browsers (PR #10931)
- replaced JS var with let/const across the repository (PR #10930)
    - inspired by bad error reporting in autoload_js due to leaking vars

#### Brayn

- Release related things
- Fixed some Dask issues
- Updated changelog

#### Carolyn

- 2.3 blog post (yay!)

#### Philipp

- Finishing updates to Panel & Holoviews

#### Pavithra

- Testing with Dask

#### Iury

- Working on
### Actions

## 17-Feb

*Attending: Bryan, Marco, Mateusz, Pavithra, Timo*

### Agenda

### Updates

##### Bryan

- release 2.3.0dev13
- caught up on issue triage
- lots of recent support questions on discourse

#### Mateusz

- finished (not yet merged) text rendering and labeling PR
    - added tests for various combinations of axes and titles
    - worked around issues with selenium's handling of unicode
- attempted to improve cross-platform compatibility of visual tests
    - will require textual baselines per platform
- investigated unit test failure on windows (pydot/graphviz)

#### Timo

- Docs annotation section, colors
- Getting Iury up to speed
- Supporting 2.3 release

### Actions

- [x] (bryan) Make issue about pydot issue
- [ ] (bryan) Make issue to discuss testing process for new contributors

## 10-Feb

*Attending: Bryan, Iury, James, Marco, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Sapir, Timo*

### Agenda

### Updates

#### Bryan

- issue/PR triage
- will review layout PR
- prepare for release

#### Marco

- Iury getting up to speed with Bokeh
- Iury and Timo start working together this week

#### Mateusz

- fixed layout regressions (PR #10894)
- almost done with text rendering and labeling

#### Philipp

- Started on [JupyterLab 3.0 extension update](https://github.com/bokeh/jupyter_bokeh/pull/120)

#### Timo

- Docs update for 2.3
- Marker docs
- Document JupyterLab intergration

### Actions

- [ ] (Makepath, Matesz) Set up call for BokehJS deep dive / pairing
- [ ] (Jim) Add issue about notebook
- [x] (Makepath) send hours billed so far on CZI grant

## 03-Feb

*Attending: Bryan, Brendan, Iury, Marco, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

### Updates

#### Brendran

- Getting Timo and Iury up to speed working together
- Looking at Tile Renderer ineffciencies

#### Pavithra

- Attended Pyladies event last week to repr. Bokeh
- Tracking PyCascades sprint later this month

#### Bryan

- started PR for low level properties code cleanup
- issue, PR triage and review
- gave AWS / infra tour to Josh L.
- helped with completing branding page
- Fixed missing export_png import in bokeh.io

#### Mateusz

- fixed regressions introduced in PR #10842 (PR #10874)
- updated gmaps' API and made it configurable (PR #10884)
- still finishing text rendering and labeling (PR #10828)
- still working on layout regressions

#### Philipp

- testing and compatibility work after nullable PR

#### Timo

- updating docs for 2.3 release (e.g. #10885)

### Actions

- [ ] (Mateusz) make an issue for Timo regarding docs update
- [x] (Bryan, Philipp) Pair on jupyterlab extension

---

# January

* [27-Jan](#27-Jan)
* [20-Jan](#20-Jan)
* [13-Jan](#13-Jan)
* [06-Jan](#06-Jan)

## 27-Jan

*Attending: Bryan, Carlo, Carolyn, Daniel, Iury, Marco, Mateusz, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

- 2.3 release plan
- IE support

### Updates

#### Carolyn

- offer (via Discourse PM) from Yannick to assist in developing minimal example for Bokeh embedded in Angular; will follow up

#### Timo

- Getting up to speed

#### Marco

- Introducing Iury who will be working on the CZI grant

#### Iury/Carlo

- Experience with TypeScript

#### Daniel

- Working on branding page

#### Mateusz

- finalized work on non-nullable properties (PR #10842)
    - introduced `Nullable()`, `NonNullable()` and `Readonly()`
    - formalized the concept of unset but required properties
    - all primitive property types have intrinsic defaults
    - added formal support for property aliases (`Alias()`)
- fixed IE compatibility (PR #10860)
    - required a few nasty hacks
    - hopefully the last release to require this
    - simplified testing with legacy resources
- minor fixes around bokehjs build/deploy (PR #10865)
    - require npm 7.4+ for development
- finalizing work on text rendering and labeling (PR #10828)
- working on layout regressions (issue #10851)

#### Bryan

- expose max websocket size on bokeh.client, was not know that this could be configured separately
- upload branding assets to CDN
- Issue/PR triage
- Opened issue to look at simplifying properties system in 2.4 / 3.0

#### Philipp

- Started updating Panel for compatibility with Bokeh 2.3 (nullable properties etc.)
- Not had time for JLab extension yet

### Actions

- [ ] (bryan) Make issue about scope of  scalar transforms
- [x] (bryan, carolyn) Reach out to downstream about testing 2.3dev

## 20-Jan

*Attending: Bryan, Brendan, Carlo, Carolyn, Daniel, Marco, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp*

### Agenda

### Updates

#### Brendan

- Typescript dev starts next week
- makepath available to help on talks and presentations in events

#### Carolyn

- Discourse; small docs fixes
- submitting NF one-pager report today

#### Daniel, Marco

- validating citation and branding page mockup (bokeh.org issue [#12](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh.org/issues/12))
- starting page implementation after validation

#### Mateusz

- finished and merged redesign of `set_data()` procedure (PR #10788)
- initial work on inheritance of non-visual glyph data (PR #10850)
- finalizing work on text rendering and axis labeling (PR #10828)
- fixed multiple regressions (PR #10854, #10856, #10858)
- fixing compatibility issues with IE (PR #10860)
- working on layout regressions (issue #10851)
- implemented non-nullable by default properties in bokeh (PR #10841)
- updated copyright information (PR #10843)

#### Bryan

- Help finish tornado compression PR
- Collaborating on branding page work
- PR testing and review esp. big data handing refactor

#### Pavithra

- Working on the JOSS paper
- PyLadies AMS session next week
- Sprints

### Actions

* [x] (pavithra, bryan) Update meeting invite for 2021 meeting minutes
* [x] (bryan) Upload branding assets to static bucket
* [ ] (Pavithra) Discourse topic for conference
* [ ] (Marco) Share makepath events calendar

## 13-Jan

*Attending: Brendan, Bryan, James, Marco, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp*

### Agenda

- Release update

### Updates

#### Brendan

- Onbording makepath devs to Bokeh
- Started getting into the *Add more JS visual and integration tests* issue (#10834)

#### Carolyn

- NF impact summary submitted for NF annual report
- Started on "one-pager" report for NF; will probably be soliciting responses from team
- Working on 2.3 blog post; any and all contributions (images, examples, etc) from team for PRs they worked on are very welcome
- knocked out some docs issues; one more to go (width/height policy) for 2.3

#### Marco

- Created issue for the branding guide on bokeh.org repo (https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh.org/issues/12)
- Started internal work on the branding guide

#### Mateusz

- added support for hatch patterns to all glyphs and annotations
    - fixed a bunch of SVG rendering bugs that popped out during this work
- allowed to infer viewport size in visual tests (if applicable)
- submitted a PR with text rendering redesign
    - adds support multi-line and justified text
    - adds support for text decorations
    - adds support for axis labeling (label filtering) policies
- finalizing work on performance and precision regressions
    - makes all visual properties and arrow heads vectorizable
    - simplifies and robustifies hatch pattern resolution

#### Bryan
- Issue / PR triage
- Testing

### Actions

* [x] (Byran, Brendan, Marco) Meet to discuss branding guide
* [x] (Bryan) Add Marco to the Google Drive folder with the logo assets and for slide deck sharing
* [x] (Philipp) Issue for Bokeh nullable/non-nullable
* [ ] (Jim) Issue for datetime picker

## 06-Jan

*Attending: Bryan, Brendan, Carolyn, Gaurav, Marco, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp*

### Agenda

- Release
    - mid/end of next week
- Jupyterlab 3
    - Phillip did for HV already
- CZI

### Updates

#### Brendan

- tests for legends
- getting set-up videos

#### Marco

- branding page and sharing the slide deck

#### Carolyn

- doing some docs updates, will put in 2.3 if convenient (env vars, datatable)
- will update 2.3 release post outline when list of inclusions is finalized

#### Mateusz

- finalized and merged `ColorBar` redesign
- implemented "views" for `TickFormatter` models (WIP)
- merged experimental smooth curve support (bokehjs only)
- finished separate color swatch PR from external contributor
- fixed a regression in selective repaint of layoutable renderers
- minor progress with context menus and toolbar styling improvements
- implemented canvas-based font metrics measurement algorithm
- finalizing labeling work
    - adds support for multi-line axis and general labels

#### Bryan

- PR and issue triage
- support questions
- will test with RC

#### Philipp

- testing panel and holoviews
- PR for websocket compression

### Actions

* [x] (Byran, Brendan) Make issue to discuss legends tests
* [x] (Philipp) add link ref to HV jupyter extension work
