# Q2 2021 / Weekly Sync

###### tags: `minutes` 

## Minutes

https://github.dev/bokeh/pm/tree/main/minutes/weekly-sync/2021-Q2.md

## Links

* [April](#April)
* [May](#May)
* [June](#June)

---

# June

* [02-June](#02-June)
* [09-June](#09-June)
* [16-June](#16-June)
* [23-June](#23-June)
* [30-June](#30-June)

## 30-June

*Attending: Bryan, Iury, Jame, Marco, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

- Release schedule
    - 2.3.3 needs layout and font issues, looking at release early next week 
    - Should re-eval 2.4 milestone soon

### Updates

#### Philipp

- Off next week

#### Timo

- Updating dev docs, made issue with proposed outline ([#11354](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/11354))
- Issue triage 


#### Mateusz

- fixed issue with dropdown menu being obscured (PR #11388)
- fixed computation of bounds in `SpatialIndex` (PR #11379)
    - bug resulted in wrong bounds being computed by glyphs
- allowed tabs to scroll to the initial active tab if off-screen (PR #11391)
- added support for vertically orientend button groups (PR #11390)
    - moves `orientation` property from `Widget` to `OrientedControl`
- CDN URLs for extensions are now pinned to extension's version (PR #11387)
- attempted to restore support for relative font units (e.g `em`) (issue #11110)
- still working on layout related regressions (issues too many to count)
- backported all PRs merged so far, with changes targetted for 2.3.3 (PR #11377)

#### Iury
 - Removed mathjax cdn version from bokehjs/test, now using the NPM version (PR #11128)
 - Updated baselines for Latex on axis labels (PR #11128)
 - Unit testing svg backend engine (PR #11337)
 - Presented at Python Floripa
 - Issues triage

#### Bryan 

- issue triage, user support
- feedback, comments on issues and proposals
- will look at token PR final tasks

#### Pavithra

- Work on scipy update talk 

### Actions

## 23-June

*Attending: Brendan, Bryan, Carolyn, Ian, Iury, Jim, Marco, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

- (late discussion) shoot for 2.3.3 release next week with targetted fixes

### Updates

#### Bryan 

- no updates, working on some docs related issues

#### Carolyn

- helping w/ Discourse
    - asking for help w/ recent questions

#### Brendan

- presentations for finding new Bokeh contributors

#### Timo

- opened issues for second half of CZI R3
- emailed tcaswell about CZI reporting 

#### Iury

- working on unit/intgration tests for latex PR
- integration test issue with idle, events

#### Ian

- thinking about webgl roadmap
    - fixing issues with current glyphs
    - move on to other glyphs
    - separate bundles / minify shaders

#### Philipp

- work on token issue this week 
- looking in to JSON serializer

#### Mateusz

- restored webgl bundle (PR #11371)
    - revealed issue with module bundler and cycle detection
- fixed a bug in `LinearInterpolationScale` (PR #11370)
- fixed legend rendering of `Ellipse` glyph (PR #11368)
- working on layout regression fixes
    - reverted all changes since `ColorBar` improvements and started from scratch
- continuing work on text box in legends, etc.

#### Pavitha

- Meeting this week to discuss scipy talk 

### Actions

- [x] (Pavithra, Bryan) Discussion for Scipy Tools Track talk
- [ ] (Philipp) dev topic for serialization
- [ ] (Ian) Start discussion on javascript/wasm tesselation

## 16-June

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, Ian, Jim, Marco, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

- SciPy Sprints 

### Updates

#### Mateusz

- wrapped first round of statically typing bokeh (PR #11237, #11290, #11330, #11332, #11341)
- redesigning legend, etc. to work with `TextBox`
- added support for rounded corners to `Rect` glyph (PR pending)
- investigated how to automate the benchmark from PR #11343 with devtools

#### Bryan 

- Fixed CI automation for dev builds
- Add version to `json_items`  #11340
- PR reviews and issue/support triage
- Review H2 CZI R3 detailed goals

#### Marco

- Working on the CZI report
- Iury will give a Bokeh presentation at Floripa meetup

#### Ian

- PR for webgl rects and markers (PR #11343)

#### Jim

- Jim proposed vis [BOF at Scipy](https://www.scipy2021.scipy.org/bof-sessions) (accepted)

#### Pavithra

- Raised awareness of Scipy Sprints

#### Timo

- Planning H2 for CZI R3
- PR to document visual testing for BokehJS
- upcoming PR to revamp dev docs

#### Philipp

- Try to finish token size PR

### Actions

- [ ] (Pavithra, Bryan) Discussion for Scipy Tools Track talk

## 09-June

*Attending: Bryan, Ian, Iury, Jim, Mateusz, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

- Scipy updates

### Updates

#### Ian

- started work on perf improvements for webgl markers (PR in a few days)

#### Jim

- FYI: Some issues incoming from HV users

#### Iury

- Research latex rendering in webworkers
    - example in persona GH
- Ran into issues w/ visual testing and mathtext rendering
- Had a meeting to discuss planning

#### Timo

- Met w/ mateusz and iury 
- Working on docs for visual tests
    - good feedback from mateusz, iury, and ian
- Call today to discuss second half of R3 grant

#### Bryan 

- Off last week

#### Philipp

- No updates, looking to finish token PR

#### Mateusz

- fixed Chrome 91 baselines and CI configuration issue
    - investigated how to maintain specific version of Chrome in CI
    - investigated switching image baseline storage to git lfs
- wraping up existing work on statically typing bokeh
- re-gearing towards work related to text rendering
- minor progress on layout work

### Actions

---

## 02-June

*Attending: Ian, Iury, Marco, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

- Discuss workflow for dealing with 2.4 or 3.0 branches
    - Wait on Bryan
- Should LaTeX support for things other than axis labels etc. wait on Textbox support?
    - Mateusz: May have to wait for 3.0
    - Discuss with Bryan
- Are there ways to do the LaTeX rendering in a webworker i.e. without a DOM engine?
    - Iury to look into this 

### Updates

#### Ian

- No updates

#### Iury

- On LaTeX PR after Bryan's review, adding unit and visual on JS side

#### Pavithra

- No updates

#### Timo

- Working on documenting visual testing on BokehJS side (PR #11304, looking for feedback)

#### Philipp

- Working on PR to reduce JWT token size and warn if it is excessively large (PR )
- Fixed jupyter_bokeh NPM bundle (dist directory was not included in 3.0.0) and released 3.0.2
- Working on JupyterLab Panel Preview extension which also works for Bokeh ()

#### Mateusz

- upgraded TypeScript to 4.3 (final) (PR #11314)
    - upgraded other dependencies
    - refreshed all `package-lock.json` files
- wrote first draft of the new layout design ([wiki](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/wiki/CSS-Layout-Design))
- wrote Python static typing "guide" ([wiki](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/wiki/Python-Typing-Best-Practices))
- continued work on static typing of bokeh's codebase (PR #11290)
- started `branch-3.0` and rebased legacy/layout PRs on top of it

### Actions

---

# May

* [26-May](#26-May)
* [19-May](#19-May)
* [12-May](#12-May)
* [05-May](#05-May)

## 26-May

*Attending: Bryan, Ian, Iury, Mateusz, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

### Updates

#### Bryan

- Submitted both CZI applications
- Caught up on Discourse support questions
- Tried to cut 2.4dev1
  - learned docs build now has new dependencies for sampledata
- helped with "long token" issue

#### Mateusz

- working on the new layout design
- statically typed 100 bokeh modules and some tests (PR #11290)
    - it's a first rough pass, no type soundness yet
    - attempted to statically type properties (multiple attempts failed)
    - attempted to statically type models' `__init__` (limitted success)

#### Ian

 - fix regression in webgl marker rendering (PR #11297)

#### Iury
 - LaTex on axis labels (WIP PR #11128)
 - Documenting visual testing with Timo

#### Timo

- Working with Iury on visual tests docs
 
### Actions

- [ ] (Bryan) Issue for multiple dev doc deployments
- [ ] *(Bryan) Provide feedback to Iury about MathText (PR #11128)*
- [ ] (Mateusz) GH discussion for typing properties

## 19-May

*Attending: Brendan, Bryan, Carolyn, Ian, Iury, James, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

- 2.4 and 3.0 schedule

### Updates

#### Mateusz

- working on various layout and related tasks
- finalized redesign of `bokeh.core.validation` (PR #11254)
- finalized initial support for `pathlib.Path` (PR #11258)
- started statically typing core properties/descriptors (PR #11287)
    - will allow to eventually statically type models' `__init__()`
    - typing actual models' properties will require non-trivial work
- statically typed `bokeh.application.handlers` (PR pending)
    - a followup on `pathlib.Path` work
- cleaned up bokehjs' codebase a bit (PR #11283)
- initial take on tab indexing (toolbars, tabs, etc.)
    - trivial to do; requires focus on styling

#### Iury

- Separated view from model on MathText ts
- Size function for MathText
- Working on a module that would be responsible for loading MathJax.

#### Bryan

- CZI proposal work
- Triage and support 
- To looks at Mathtext and other 2.4 tasks this week

#### Ian

- work on webgl perf regressions
    - fixed lines
    - looking at markers

#### Philipp

- No updates

#### Carolyn

- Gotten some additional LI followers, starting to post content there
- Reviving tweet cycles

#### Jim

- Work on CZI R4 proposal 

### Actions

## 12-May

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, Mateusz, Iury, Philipp, Jim, Ian, Marco, Timo, Pavithra*

### Agenda

- encourage using github discussions
- PyCon mentored sprints this weekend 9am PST Sunday

### Updates

#### Bryan

- cut 2.3.2 release
- work on CZI proposals

#### Carolyn

- not much response to teacher/student bioscience survey-- please help spread the word! https://tinyurl.com/u3bzb849

#### Mateusz

- added support for `pathlib.Path` where `str` path were accepted (PR #11258)
- redesigned `core.validation` utilizing dataclasses and static typing (PR #11254)
- updated bokehjs' dependencies (due to github's security concerns) (PR #11246)
- fixed invalidation of coordinates of layoutable renderers (PR #11249)
- continued work on migration to shadow DOM/webcomponents (PR #11239)
- making progress on single canvas grid plots (PR pending)
- working on DOM/CSS layout and related overall design

#### Iury

- Working on LaTex on axis labels (WIP)

#### Timo

- CZI proposals

#### Ian

- Fixed webgl alpha-blending issues with lines (PR #11252)
- Replaced remaining old-style webgl code with ReGL (PR #11262)

### Actions


## 05-May

*Attending: Mateusz, Jim, Iury, Bryan, Timo, Ian, Philipp*

### Agenda

- Layout roadmap
    - Mateusz to work on writing up the overall vision
- Bokeh 2.3.2 release
    - Smoke testing of RC release appreciated
- When is 2.4?
    - Does layout go in? Probably in 3.0.
    - Discuss what goes in next week.

### Updates

#### Mateusz
(may miss the metting due to vaccination appointment)
- restarted work on migration to shadow DOM (PR #11239)
- upgraded to TS 4.3-dev and enabled `noImplicitOverride` (PR #11238)
- finalized initial work on layout <-> DOM integration (PR #11165)
- finalized initial work on polar coordinates support (PR #11107)
- finalized initial work on toolbar improvements (PR #11214)
- more dataclass/static typing improvements (PR #11225)

#### Bryan

- PR for fixing OpenURL escaping
- Forward ports from branch-2.3 to branch-2.4
- Had a call about accessibility

#### Iury

- Created MathText model
- Added MathText model to Axis label
- Updated Legend annotation visual tests

#### Ian

- Fixed static typing of WebGL code
- Fixing alpha blending of lines
- Improve performance of WebGL

#### Timo

- Working on CZI application
- Planning to work on documenting visual testing 

#### Jim

- Working a little on the CZI proposal

#### Philipp

- Directing client to contribute to Bokeh via NumFOCUS

### Actions

* [ ] (Bryan) Provide feedback to Iury about MathText (PR #11128)


# April

* [28-Apr](#28-Apr)
* [21-Apr](#21-Apr)
* [14-Apr](#14-Apr)
* [07-Apr](#07-Apr)

## 28-Apr

*Attending: Mateusz, Brendan, Marco, Iury, Philipp, Bryan, Jim*

### Agenda

* 2.3.2 plans
    * plan for release next monday

### Updates

#### Bryan

* PR for publishing wheels (needs test on dev build)
* PR to update to isort 5.8
* Fixed Discourse outage after upgrade
* Fixed GH CI issues (removed black formatting tests)
* Started 2.4 backports (need help)
* Finished/merged HasProps cleanup PR

#### Mateusz

- continued work on layout and DOM integration
- enabled lazy annotations (PR #11220)
- preliminary usage of dataclasses (PR #11219)
    - includes static typing improvements
- unified `Figure` and `Toolbar`'s `active_*` properties (PR #11218)
- added support for toolbar's overflow menu (PR #11214)
    - simplifies toolbar rendering
    - context menu improvements
    - preliminary step towards separating tools from toolbar
- fixed edit/draw tools to work with non-linear scales (PR #11199)
- fixed support for `RadioGroup.active == null` (PR #11206)
- included hatch visuals in `Figure`'s visuals logic (PR #11202)
- finalized replacement of `plot_{width,height}` (PR #11201)
- fixed axis layout when tick lables are not painted (PR #11200)
- added support for collecting performance metrics in integration tests (PR #11195)
- made base64 ndarray encoding lazy in bokehjs' serializer (PR #11194)
    - fixes a major performance regression
- udated baselines after a major braking chromium (v90) update (PR #11189)
- finalized a fix for hatch pattern rotation bug (PR #11150)
    - fix doesn't apply to IE/legacy browsers

### Actions

- [ ] ***(Mateusz) describe glyph decoration questions***
- [ ] *(Bryan) make issue for remaining release automation*

## 21-Apr

*Attending: Bryan, Ian, Iury, James, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

* CZI R4 and DEI letters advanced
* 2.3.2 plans?

### Updates

#### Mateusz

- continued work on DOM/layout (PR #11165)
- restarted work on Python-side serialization (PR pending)
    - decouples serialization format from wire encoding (JSON)
    - adds proper support for `NaN`, `+/-oo`, `Dict[non-str, Any]`
    - adds support for dataclasses
    - will allow migration from ad-hoc dict structures to dataclasses
- restarted work on context menus (PR pending)
    - allows to access tools if toolbar is not present/visible

#### Bryan 

- Last PR for HasProps cleanup for now
- Docs PR to add autoclasstoca and fix collapsible blocks
- A lot of support questions

#### Philipp

- Automaing release process for jupyter-bokeh
- Testing with HasProps PR

#### Iury

- Adding visual tests
- Working on Latex Model

#### Timo

- Bioscience survey is out
- Updating docs: plot width and height

#### Pavithra

- In contact with Outreachy

### Actions

- [ ] ***(Mateusz) describe glyph decoration questions***
- [ ] *(Bryan) make issue for remaining release automation*
- [x] (Timo) make issue for grid plot width/height args
- [x] (Bryan) Set up Meeting Friday for CZI, forward CZI emails


## 14-Apr

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, Ian, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

### Updates

#### Bryan

- Published 2.3.1 release
- More PRs for docs and docs build improvements 
    - fix collapsible code block
    - add autoclasstoc
- PR to clean up codebase tests and add JSON test
- Finished and merged RangesUpdate PR

#### Carolyn
- survey forms for bioscience students/teachers ready to go out; wider net than previous respondents?

#### Mateusz

- working on the DOM <-> layout interface (PR #11165)
    - added support for tooltip templating
    - added support for embedding layouts in tooltips
- working on improving performance of properties' system
- fixed hatch pattern rendering under rotation (PR #11150)
- continuing work on multiple open recent PRs

#### Philipp

- will look at NPM release for BokehJS
- also automation for ipywidgets extension

#### Ian

- rectangles for webgl using hatching
- plan to fill in gaps in current implementations

#### Pavithra

- waiting on CZI results

#### Timo 

- working on docs improvements
- bioscience survey 

### Actions

- [x] *(Mateusz) issue for Pathlib support throughout*
- [ ] *(Mateusz) describe glyph decoration questions*
- [ ] (Bryan) make issue for remaining release automation

## 07-Apr

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, Ian, Iury, James, Mateusz, Pavithra*

### Agenda

* 2.3.1 release

### Updates

#### Bryan

- cut 2.3.1rc release candidate
- performed remaining forward ports
- PR with misc refguide doc improvements
- Old PR housekeeping

#### Mateusz

- fix or worked around layout regressions (PR #11123)
- removed all cyclic module dependencies from bokehjs (PR #11140)
    - cycle detection is now enabled by default
- added support for data URLs and `pathlib.Path` to Image property (PR #11141)
- added preliminary support for glyph decorations (PR #11122)
- started working on an API for defining custom scatter markers (PR pending)
- continued work on coordinate systems and layout
- benchmarking bokehjs with large number of models (e.g. up to 1000 glyphs)
    - properties and signaling systems have to be redesigned

#### Iury 

- final changes and merged Latex example PR
- Initial WIP PR starting Latex labels
- Working w/ Mateusz about tests

#### Ian

- WebGL rect and quad hatching 
- Some time on contouring ongoing

#### Jim / Philipp 

- working on automating jupyter-bokeh
- [Lumen](https://lumen.holoviz.org/)!

#### Pavithra

- Outreachy questionare

### Actions

- [ ] (Mateusz) issue for Pathlib support throughout 
- [ ] (Mateusz) describe glyph decoration questions
- [x] (Bryan) Add NPM secrets to jupyter extension 