# Q3 2021 / Weekly Sync

###### tags: `minutes` 

## Minutes

https://github.dev/bokeh/pm/tree/main/minutes/weekly-sync/2021-Q3.md

## Links

* [July](#July)
* [August](#August)

---

# August

* [04-Aug](#04-Aug)
* [11-Aug](#11-Aug)

## 11-Aug

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, Iury, James, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo* 

### Agenda

- 2.4 Milestone triage

### Updates

#### Bryan 

- Bokeh/Dask PRs to resolve a recent kwarg-only incompatibility
- Cleanup PRs for addressing reference cycles/memory leaks
    - split `model.py` up in to a submodule
- PR to check correct base branch on deploy job runs

#### Carolyn

- PR in (to be added to) to add ReST formatted docstrings to gallery examples

#### Mateusz

- redesigned `MathText` around async edges (PR #11480, PR #11495)
- improved/robustified recently added SVG tests (PR #11465)
- robustified `OpenURL`'s unit tests (PR #11488)
- working on tests for multiple recent bugfix PRs
- working again on a redesign of `Legend` with layout and text box
- working again on single canvas grid plots

#### Iury

- add `MathJax` bundle #11496
- Issues triaging

#### Timo

- Dev docs update

#### Philipp 

- looking into fixing ipywigets-bokeh
- patch release for panel
- adding panel to downstream

### Actions

- [ ] (Bryan) Make a new "PR Open" label
- [ ] (Mateusz) Open discussion about new label


## 04-Aug

*Attending: Mateusz, Bryan, Carolyn, Timo, Philipp, Jim, Iury* 

### Agenda

- CZI proposal results :thumbsdown:
- accepts / pre-accepts
- Bokeh 2.4 timeline
    - one blocker: finish GL bundle
    - set up meeting to triage meeting
    - aim for early september
    - triage milestone on 8/11 meeting 

### Updates

#### Bryan 

- Refactor sphinxext and update to Sphinx 4.1 #11450, #11467
- Fix broken spec.py and delete cruft in scripts #11454
- Update file_input.py to not use internal events #11459
- Make hinted ColumnData events more efficient #11472
- Set up Zap using Bokeh zapier to alert on new HV release candidates
- PR to improve some Bokeh styling in Dask

#### Mateusz

- bug fixes (PR #11453, PR #11456, PR #11468, PR #11469)
- robustified bokeh's SVG tests (PR #11464)
- cleaned up PR queue (SVG and latex)
- followup improvements to SVG backend (PR #11465)
- investigating relacing selenium with native browser API
    - chromium browser familly only
    - would replace exports, bokeh integration and examples tests frameworks

#### Carolyn

- Will work with Bryan on starting examples docstrings 

#### Timo

- triage, help with sphinx 4.1 update 
- updating meta.yaml for conda recipe
- working on narrative docs for mathtext
- continue working on dev docs

#### Philipp

- look at ipywidgets_bokeh incompatibility with ipykernel 6.x

#### Iury

- Issues triaging
- WIP: python conveniences for LaTeX.

### Actions

- [ ] (Timo/Bryan/Mateusz): Review Mathtext project progress (Issue for LaTeX progress: https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/11355 - all LaTeX-related issues: https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/discussions/11191 -  Overall CZI project: https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/projects/12)
- [x] (Bryan) Issue for accepts / pre-accepts

# July

* [07-July](#07-July)
* [14-July](#14-July)
* [21-July](#21-July)
* [28-July](#28-July)

## 28-July

*Attending: Bryan, Iury, Jim, Mateusz, Philipp, Timo* 

### Agenda

### Updates

#### Bryan

- PR to deploy dev docs per release branch
- PR for sphinxext refactor (and fix jumpy anchors)
- PR to clean up Dask Dashboard Bokeh usage
- Blackstone / NF catchup
- Reviews and support

#### Mateusz

- catching up and reviewing PRs

#### Iury

- Testing SVG backend Styling methods, ids, drawImage
- Add HTMLElement assertions to bokehjs test framework
- update old svg backend tests
- Issues triage
- Latex on tick labels PR#11420

#### Philipp

- Starting to look at adding websocket disconnect event and adding js callbacks on Document (for WebsocketDisconnect and DocumentReady events)

#### Timo

- Update dev docs, focus on running tests locally

### Actions


## 21-July

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, Iury, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo* 

### Agenda

### Updates

#### Bryan

- small cleanup PR
- Scipy: BoF, NF sponsor booth, and sprints
- PR reviews
- working on some Dask cleanup 

#### Carolyn

- examples PR; gallery docstring PR

#### Iury

- Testing SVG backend Paths and Transforms PR#11437 PR#11427
- SciPy: Sprint
- Issues triage
- Latex on tick labels PR#11420

#### Philipp

- Released Panel 0.12.0 (https://blog.holoviz.org/panel_0.12.0.html)
- Trying to arrange meeting with NumFOCUS and Blackstone to discuss their funding

#### Pavithra

- Presented roadmap update at Scipy

#### Timo

- Scipy sprints
- Working on developer docs, landing page, set up 
- Started discussion for git precommit hooks

### Actions

- [x] Forward Dask info about pre-commit hooks

## 14-July

*Attending: *Brendan, Bryan, Carolyn, Iury, Marco, Pavithra, Timo* 

### Agenda

- 2.3.3 retro
- Scipy events
    - Sprint saturday
    - NumFoCUS maintainers table
    - Tools Track update
    - Vis BOF

### Updates

#### Timo

- Working on dev doc refactor 
- Organizing sprint for SciPy
- Triage

#### Brendan

- Organizing sprint for Scipy

#### Iury

- LaTeX to tick labels (PR #11420)
- Testing state management methods of SVG backend (PR pending)
- Improving svg backend
- Updated MathText class to implement GraphicsBox
- Good first Issues triage for SciPy sprint

#### Carolyn

- Finishing up PR for gallery detail incorporating docstrings

#### Pavithra

- Prepare scipy tools track talk 

#### Bryan

- PR for LegendItem.visble (plus fix new minimal-deps build issue)
- PR to remove OrderedDict (plus clean up fourier_animated.py example)
- Updated and re-deployed demo site to move off deprecated AWS platform branch
- Scipy Vis BOF today

### Actions

## 07-July

*Attending: Bryan, Carolyn, Iury, James, Marco, Mateusz, Timo*

### Agenda

- Release schedule
    - 2.3.3 release today

### Updates

#### Bryan

- expand categorical docs
- finish token PR
- release notes and finish 2.3.3 release

#### Iury

- tests for SVG Backend - Transformations PR #11401
- add ellipse to SVG backend PR #11405
- Fix SVG backend moveTo if called before beginPath #11407
- LaTeX branch update to most recent base branch PR #11128
- issue triage

#### Carolyn

- fixed LGTM issues
- working on Sphinx gallery docstrings PR
- will publish release announce today 

#### Timo 

- edited categorical docs
- issue triage

#### Marco

- issue triage

#### Mateusz

- mostly working on 2.3.3 this week
- helping Iury w/ PRs

### Actions

- [x] (Bryan) Update BEP-1 to documents new tags in an ongoing GH discussion
- [ ] (Mateusz) Remove "Needs Backport" tags
- [ ] (Iury) Discussion for mathext on tick labels (update https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/discussions/11191 ?)