# Q1 2021 / Weekly Sync

###### tags: `minutes` 

## Minutes

HackMD: https://hackmd.io/@bokeh/BJMqmm5pv

GitHub Archive: [minutes/weekly-sync/2021-Q1.md](https://github.com/bokeh/pm/blob/master/minutes/weekly-sync/2021-Q1.md)

## Links

* [January](#January)
* [February](#February)

---

# February

* [17-Feb](#17-Feb)
* [10-Feb](#10-Feb)
* [03-Feb](#03-Feb)

## 17-Feb

*Attending: Bryan, Marco, Mateusz, Pavithra, Timo*

### Agenda

### Updates

##### Bryan 

- release 2.3.0dev13
- caught up on issue triage
- lots of recent support questions on discourse

#### Mateusz

- finished (not yet merged) text rendering and labeling PR
    - added tests for various combinations of axes and titles
    - worked around issues with selenium's handling of unicode
- attempted to improve cross-platform compatibility of visual tests
    - will require textual baselines per platform
- investigated unit test failure on windows (pydot/graphviz)

#### Timo

- Docs annotation section, colors
- Getting Iury up to speed
- Supporting 2.3 release

### Actions

- [ ] (bryan) Make issue about pydot issue
- [ ] (bryan) Make issue to discuss testing process for new contributors

## 10-Feb

*Attending: Bryan, Iury, James, Marco, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Sapir, Timo*

### Agenda

### Updates

#### Bryan 

- issue/PR triage 
- will review layout PR
- prepare for release

#### Marco

- Iury getting up to speed with Bokeh
- Iury and Timo start working together this week

#### Mateusz

- fixed layout regressions (PR #10894)
- almost done with text rendering and labeling

#### Philipp

- Started on [JupyterLab 3.0 extension update](https://github.com/bokeh/jupyter_bokeh/pull/120)

#### Timo

- Docs update for 2.3
- Marker docs
- Document JupyterLab intergration

### Actions

- [ ] (Makepath, Matesz) Set up call for BokehJS deep dive / pairing
- [ ] (Jim) Add issue about notebook
- [ ] (Makepath) send hours billed so far on CZI grant

## 03-Feb

*Attending: Bryan, Brendan, Iury, Marco, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

### Updates

#### Brendran

- Getting Timo and Iury up to speed working together
- Looking at Tile Renderer ineffciencies

#### Pavithra

- Attended Pyladies event last week to repr. Bokeh
- Tracking PyCascades sprint later this month

#### Bryan

- started PR for low level properties code cleanup
- issue, PR triage and review
- gave AWS / infra tour to Josh L.
- helped with completing branding page
- Fixed missing export_png import in bokeh.io

#### Mateusz

- fixed regressions introduced in PR #10842 (PR #10874)
- updated gmaps' API and made it configurable (PR #10884)
- still finishing text rendering and labeling (PR #10828)
- still working on layout regressions

#### Philipp

- testing and compatibility work after nullable PR 

#### Timo

- updating docs for 2.3 release (e.g. #10885)

### Actions

- [ ] (Mateusz) make an issue for Timo regarding docs update
- [ ] (Bryan, Philipp) Pair on jupyterlab extension

---

# January

* [27-Jan](#27-Jan)
* [20-Jan](#20-Jan)
* [13-Jan](#13-Jan)
* [06-Jan](#06-Jan)

## 27-Jan

*Attending: Bryan, Carlo, Carolyn, Daniel, Iury, Marco, Mateusz, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

- 2.3 release plan
- IE support

### Updates

#### Carolyn

- offer (via Discourse PM) from Yannick to assist in developing minimal example for Bokeh embedded in Angular; will follow up

#### Timo

- Getting up to speed

#### Marco

- Introducing Iury who will be working on the CZI grant

#### Iury/Carlo

- Experience with TypeScript

#### Daniel

- Working on branding page

#### Mateusz

- finalized work on non-nullable properties (PR #10842)
    - introduced `Nullable()`, `NonNullable()` and `Readonly()`
    - formalized the concept of unset but required properties
    - all primitive property types have intrinsic defaults
    - added formal support for property aliases (`Alias()`)
- fixed IE compatibility (PR #10860)
    - required a few nasty hacks
    - hopefully the last release to require this
    - simplified testing with legacy resources
- minor fixes around bokehjs build/deploy (PR #10865)
    - require npm 7.4+ for development
- finalizing work on text rendering and labeling (PR #10828)
- working on layout regressions (issue #10851)

#### Bryan

- expose max websocket size on bokeh.client, was not know that this could be configured separately 
- upload branding assets to CDN
- Issue/PR triage
- Opened issue to look at simplifying properties system in 2.4 / 3.0

#### Philipp

- Started updating Panel for compatibility with Bokeh 2.3 (nullable properties etc.)
- Not had time for JLab extension yet

### Actions

- [ ] (bryan) Make issue about scope of  scalar transforms
- [x] (bryan, carolyn) Reach out to downstream about testing 2.3dev

## 20-Jan

*Attending: Bryan, Brendan, Carlo, Carolyn, Daniel, Marco, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp*

### Agenda

### Updates

#### Brendan

- Typescript dev starts next week
- makepath available to help on talks and presentations in events

#### Carolyn

- Discourse; small docs fixes
- submitting NF one-pager report today

#### Daniel, Marco

- validating citation and branding page mockup (bokeh.org issue [#12](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh.org/issues/12))
- starting page implementation after validation

#### Mateusz

- finished and merged redesign of `set_data()` procedure (PR #10788)
- initial work on inheritance of non-visual glyph data (PR #10850)
- finalizing work on text rendering and axis labeling (PR #10828)
- fixed multiple regressions (PR #10854, #10856, #10858)
- fixing compatibility issues with IE (PR #10860)
- working on layout regressions (issue #10851)
- implemented non-nullable by default properties in bokeh (PR #10841)
- updated copyright information (PR #10843)

#### Bryan 

- Help finish tornado compression PR
- Collaborating on branding page work
- PR testing and review esp. big data handing refactor

#### Pavithra

- Working on the JOSS paper
- PyLadies AMS session next week
- Sprints

### Actions

* [x] (pavithra, bryan) Update meeting invite for 2021 meeting minutes
* [ ] (bryan) Upload branding assets to static bucket
* [ ] (Pavithra) Discourse topic for conference
* [ ] (Marco) Share makepath events calendar

## 13-Jan

*Attending: Brendan, Bryan, James, Marco, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp*

### Agenda

- Release update 

### Updates

#### Brendan

- Onbording makepath devs to Bokeh
- Started getting into the *Add more JS visual and integration tests* issue (#10834) 

#### Carolyn

- NF impact summary submitted for NF annual report
- Started on "one-pager" report for NF; will probably be soliciting responses from team
- Working on 2.3 blog post; any and all contributions (images, examples, etc) from team for PRs they worked on are very welcome
- knocked out some docs issues; one more to go (width/height policy) for 2.3

#### Marco

- Created issue for the branding guide on bokeh.org repo (https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh.org/issues/12)
- Started internal work on the branding guide

#### Mateusz

- added support for hatch patterns to all glyphs and annotations
    - fixed a bunch of SVG rendering bugs that popped out during this work
- allowed to infer viewport size in visual tests (if applicable)
- submitted a PR with text rendering redesign
    - adds support multi-line and justified text
    - adds support for text decorations
    - adds support for axis labeling (label filtering) policies
- finalizing work on performance and precision regressions
    - makes all visual properties and arrow heads vectorizable
    - simplifies and robustifies hatch pattern resolution

#### Bryan 
- Issue / PR triage
- Testing

### Actions

* [ ] (Byran, Brendan, Marco) Meet to discuss branding guide
* [ ] (Bryan) Add Marco to the Google Drive folder with the logo assets and for slide deck sharing
* [ ] (Philipp) Issue for Bokeh nullable/non-nullable
* [ ] (Jim) Issue for datetime picker

## 06-Jan

*Attending: Bryan, Brendan, Carolyn, Gaurav, Marco, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp*

### Agenda

- Release
    - mid/end of next week
- Jupyterlab 3
    - Phillip did for HV already
- CZI

### Updates

#### Brendan

- tests for legends 
- getting set-up videos

#### Marco

- branding page and sharing the slide deck

#### Carolyn

- doing some docs updates, will put in 2.3 if convenient (env vars, datatable)
- will update 2.3 release post outline when list of inclusions is finalized

#### Mateusz

- finalized and merged `ColorBar` redesign
- implemented "views" for `TickFormatter` models (WIP)
- merged experimental smooth curve support (bokehjs only)
- finished separate color swatch PR from external contributor
- fixed a regression in selective repaint of layoutable renderers
- minor progress with context menus and toolbar styling improvements
- implemented canvas-based font metrics measurement algorithm
- finalizing labeling work
    - adds support for multi-line axis and general labels

#### Bryan

- PR and issue triage
- support questions
- will test with RC 

#### Philipp

- testing panel and holoviews
- PR for websocket compression

### Actions

* [x] (Byran, Brendan) Make issue to discuss legends tests
* [x] (Philipp) add link ref to HV jupyter extension work