https://github.dev/bokeh/pm/tree/main/minutes/weekly-sync/2022.md

----

* [January](#January)
* [February](#Februry)
* [March](#March)
* [April](#April)
* [May](#May)
* [June](#June)
* [July](#July)
* [August](#August)
* [September](#September)
* [October](#October)
* [November](#November)
* [December](#December)

---

# May

* [11-May](#11-May)
* [04-May](#04-May)

## 11-May

*Attending: Mateusz*

### Agenda

### Updates

#### Mateusz

- continued work on the redesign of canvas, UI events, positioning (PR #12083)
- finalizing work on the layout redesign (PR #11915)

### Actions

## 04-May

*Attending: Bryan, Ian, Jim, Mateusz, Timo*

### Agenda

- Proposed 2.4.3 release with important backports
  - highly focused, may only get manual testing

### Updates

#### Ian

- WebGL docs updates
- Finish CZI hours on a new webgl PR

#### Timo

- Help with WebGL docs
- Onboarding Victoria for twitter, blog, etc

#### Mateusz

- Continued work on the redesign of canvas, UI events, positioning (PR #12083)
- Working on the layout redesign (PR #11915)
- Working on Pyscript, could be leveraged for Bokeh

#### Philipp

- Script to convert Bokeh app to Pyscript/Pyodide

#### Bryan

- Update GMap to weekly channel
- Set up Timo and Victoria for Twitter
- Starting to collect release blog info

### Actions

# April

* [27-Apr](#27-Apr)
* [20-Apr](#20-Apr)
* [13-Apr](#13-Apr)
* [06-Apr](#06-Apr)

## 27-Apr

*Attending: Bryan, Ian, James, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp*

### Agenda

### Updates

#### Bryan

- Contributor PR reviews and merge
- Deployed 3.0.0dev6
  - Anaconda credentials had exprired
- Created image anchor/origin explorer

#### Ian

- Finishing EqHist PR

#### Mateusz

- Continued work on the redesign of canvas, UI events, positioning (PR #12083)
- Created 3.0 punch list issue

#### Philipp

- Will create a bokeh-django repo

#### Timo

- Starting work on WebGL / CZI extension

### Agenda

## 20-Apr

*Attending: Ian, Mateusz, Pavithra*

### Agenda

### Updates

#### Mateusz

- continued work on the redesign of canvas, UI events, positioning (PR #12083)

#### Ian

- ~12 hours left on CZI round 3 extension
- EqHistColorMapper PR (#12084) in progress

### Actions

## 13-Apr

*Attending: Bryan, Jim, Mateusz, Pavithra, Timo*

### Agenda

- Mention's Philipp Jupyterlite work
  - Longer term, Interest in making docs "live"
  - Mateusz also mentions trimming WASM compiled size

### Updates

#### Bryan

- Submitted CZI R5 LOI submitted (Jim wrote)

#### Jim

- Wrote CZI LOI submission

#### Pavithra

- reports from OpenCollective NF meeting
  - anonymization option
  - another option, "hiding" certain transactions (esp. if it's not under the "general" umbrella)

#### Mateusz

- continued work on the redesign of canvas, UI events, positioning (PR #12083)
- fixed `Image` glyph's constructor regression (PR #12081)

### Actions

- [ ] (Mateusz) J-lite compilation size issues
- [ ] (Bryan) OpenCollective follow-ups
- [ ] (Mateusz) Punch list issue for 3.0

## 06-Apr

*Attending: Bryan, Ian, James, Mateusz, Philipp*

### Agenda

- port datashader hist updates to Bokeh

### Updates

#### Ian

- Left comments on contouring

#### Mateusz

- improved initialization of properties (PR #12076)
- fixed performance regression related to fonts (PR #12067)
- redesigned ridgeplot example to use subcoordinates (PR #12068)
- redesigned canvas, UI events, positioning, etc. (PR #12074)
  - exposed canvas and frame as a top-level models
  - arbitrary positioning of frames, plots, etc. within canvas
  - unified handling of coordinates and mapping
  - new symbolic coordinate system
  - improved interactivity of annotations, etc.
  - added support for persistent selection (box, poly, etc.)
  - added support for customized SVG cursors

#### Jim

- Will work on CZI R5 LOI on Friday (due date on the 15th)

### Actions

# March

* [30-Mar](#30-Mar)
* [23-Mar](#23-Mar)
* [16-Mar](#16-Mar)
* [09-Mar](#09-Mar)
* [02-Mar](#02-Mar)

## 30-Mar

*Attending: Bryan, Ian, Mateusz, Pavithra, Timo*

### Agenda

### Updates

#### Mateusz

- finalized toolbar redesign (PR #11944)
- finalized implementation of anchor/origin in Image(RGBA) (PR #11591)
- working on finalizing layout redesign (PR #11915)
- working on finalizing redesign of legend (PR #11949)
- added support for TeX title to ColorBar (PR #12059)
- working on subcoordinates

#### Ian

- webgl PRs
- work on contouring

#### Pavithra

- Comms about new showcases
- work on JOSS next week

#### Bryan

- PR to update sampledata provenance
- Infrastructure
  - NF looking to migrate some things off AWS
  - explained we are heavily invested in AWS
  - got a year of free scans from https://pentest-tools.com for our sites

### Actions

## 23-Mar

*Attending: Bryan, Ian, Jim, Mateusz, Philipp*

### Agenda

### Updates

#### Ian

- webgl PR fixes line visual options
- another webGL PR in the pipeline
- webgl docs updates planned

#### Philipp

- Jupyterlite work

#### Mateusz

- working on finalizing toolbar redesign PR
- working on finalizing layout redesign PR
- working on subcoordinates
- fixed `ndarray` related regressions (PR #12057)
- redesigned filtering in `CDSView` (PR #12054)
- upgraded bokehjs' dependencies (PR #12056)

### Actions

- [ ] (philipp) Jupyterlite related issues

## 16-Mar

*Attending: Bryan, Ian, Pavithra, Timo*

### Agenda

- NF switch to OpenCollective
- bokeh.org email secured with SPF, DKIM, and DMARC

### Updates

#### Pavithra

- looking in to authoring a JOSS for Bokeh

#### Mateusz

- working on finalizing toolbar redesign PR
- working on finalizing layout redesign PR
- working on subcoordinates
- early draft of binary serializer

#### Ian

- Three PRs open
  - WebGL improvements (CZI R3)
  - DatetimeRangeSlider
  - Contouring (needs GH discussions for implementation

### Actions

## 09-Mar

*Attending: Bryan, Ian, Jim, Greg, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp*

### Agenda

- CZI R5

### Updates

#### Ian

- Three PRs open
  - WebGL improvements (CZI R3)
  - DatetimeRangeSlider
  - Contouring (needs GH discussions for implementation)

#### Mateusz

- removed legacy `PatchDoc.use_buffers` (PR #12039)
  - thanks to bi-directional binary buffer support
- added serialization support for `dtype=bool` (PR #12030)
- working on regression fixes after serialization work
- working on a PR for canvas frame positioning
- experiments with binary serialization
  - using `msgpack` (reasonable balance between size and performance)
- more toying around with rust and and webassembly
  - rewrote a few array and numerical heavy functions

#### Bryan

- PR to clarify RenderRoot and components API
- PR to add Init Signatures to models

### Actions

## 02-Mar

*Attending: Bryan, Ian, Jim, Philipp, Mateusz, Timo*

### Agenda

- Ian added to `@bokeh/core`

### Updates

#### Ian

- Working on CZI/webgl extension
- Working on contouring on the background

####

- Work approved for Ian to work on datetime slider improvements
  - more tasks coming

#### Mateusz

- finally finished serialization/protocol work (PR #11930)
  - further deferred binary encoding with `memoryview`
  - added support for `array.array` <-> JS typed arrays serialization
- finishing upgrade of `jupyter_bokeh` after PR #11930
- working on `ndarray` redesign after dropping IE and PR #11930
  - adds support for `bool` and `str` dtypes
- silenced some deprecation warnings in tests (PR #12028)
- upgraded to TypeScript 4.6 (PR #12027)
- making progress on canvas frame positioning
- making progress on layout

#### Timo

- Interim CZI report and extension submitted

### Actions

# February

* [23-Feb](#23-Feb)
* [16-Feb](#16-Feb)
* [09-Feb](#09-Feb)
* [02-Feb](#02-Feb)

## 23-Feb

*Attending: Bryan, Ian, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

- core team proposal
  - https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/discussions/12015

### Updates

#### Timo

- No-cost extension for excess CZI funds submitted

#### Ian

- `countour.py` first release published
- Opened discussion PR for Bokeh contour PR

#### Mateusz

- finished serialization work (PR #11960)
- upgrading `jupyter_bokeh`
- attempted to fix django integration (PR #12006)
- working on plot canvas positioning (issue #3821)
- making progress on the layout work

#### Philipp

- Plan to look at Django PR soon

#### Bryan

- Sourcing license for projected carto data
- Issues, PRs, Discourse

### Actions

## 16-Feb

*Attending: Bryan, Ian, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

### Updates

#### Philipp

- discussing w/ contributor about Django updates

#### Mateusz

- fixed unnecessary rendering with inpsection indices (PR #12004)
- allowed updating color mapper of a color bar (PR #12005)

#### Timo

- Looking to extra CZI funds use

#### Ian

- Thinking of SDG proposal to finish WebGL

#### Bryan

- Moved governance category from Discourse to GH Discussions
- Plan to update Team Roles BEP for emeritus this Friday

### Actions

## 09-Feb

*Attending: Bryan, Ian, Jim, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

- Core Team Emeritus
  - Draft proposal to modify Roles BEP
- Excess CZI funds
- Outreachy opportunity

### Updates

#### Timo

- PR for sphinx-copybutton

#### Ian

- Starting to work w/ Jim an Philipp for datetime axes (specifics later)
- Releasing contourpy this week

#### Mateusz

- finished serialization work (still needs testing) (PR #11960)
- experiments with rust-wasm and some benchmarking
- returning to layout work

#### Jim

- Where to discuss datetime work?
  - GH discussions for design and review

### Actions

- [ ] (Bryan) emeritus proposal
- [ ] (Bryan) email Pavithra and Mateusz about Outreachy decision

## 02-Feb

*Attending: Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp*

### Agenda

- Release:
  - Mateusz can complete the ongoing work by end of Feb
  - So, we can test in March, and release by end March

### Updates

#### Mateusz

- finishing touches to serialization work (PR #11960)
- continued work on the CSS layout (PR #11915)
- working on adding WASM support to the build
- some early experiments with incorporating WASM to bokehjs

#### Bryan

- Issue/PR review and triage
- Noted a pretty bad regression with docs search [#11985](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/11985) probably due to new Sphinx minor version. I need to confirm and then I will submit an issue on Sphinx tracker
- Fixed a but with release CI, cut 3.0.0dev4
- Plan to look at adding [sphinx-copybutton](https://sphinx-copybutton.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) to docs

### Actions

# January

* [26-Jan](#26-Jan)
* [19-Jan](#19-Jan)
* [12-Jan](#12-Jan)
* [05-Jan](#05-Jan)

## 26-Jan

*Attending: Alex, Bryan, Ian, Jim, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

### Updates

#### Timo

- Working on tutorial notebooks for NF Small Dev Grant
  - topic focused around making a nice dashboard at the end
- Opened up a few issues from Discourse feedback

#### Philipp

- Met with Django folks, working on a plan to split out Django support

#### Ian

- Working on contour.py docs

#### Alex

- Intersted in datatables (nan sorting()
- hit-testing on "area" cools

#### Mateusz

- finalizing the redesign of serialization in bokeh(js) (PR #11960)
  - working on universal streaming/patching
  - working on removal/replacement of document event hints

#### Jim

- Potential interest around funded work for timeseries

#### Bryan

- Track modified in build more closely
- Fixed Flake8/Python 3.9 type issues
- Add deprecation `CDSView.source`
- PR to unpin Sphinx version
  - parallel builds now possible

### Actions

- [x] (Jim) to open GH discussion about timeseries work

## 19-Jan

*Attending: Bryan, Ian, Jim, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp*

### Agenda

### Updates

#### Mateusz

- redesigned serialization in bokeh (PR #11960)
  - improved support for `ndarrays`
  - added universal support for serialization of `bytes`
  - added support for serialization of dataclasses
  - added support for serialization of `dict` with any keys
- finalized `setter_id` replacement in bokehjs (PR #11836)
  - includes first iteration of bokehjs server
- finalized first iteration of bokehjs inspector/devtools (PR #11871)
- finalized first iteration of new component styling (PR #11948)
  - migrated Less variables to CSS vars
- created a preliminary set of new SVG tool icons (PR #11958)
- finalized support for `Switch` UI control (PR #11933)
- started work on new UI elements (progress bar, dialogs, ...)

#### Bryan

- PR review / Issue Triage
- Opened Selection / Inspection design discussion
- Completed NF sponsored project survey

#### Jim

- Philipp looking at Bokeh 3.0 and Panel

#### Philipp

- Talks with potential Django work collaborator

#### Pavithra

- Looking at twitter campaigns, e.g. year end review

### Actions

## 12-Jan

*Attending: Bryan, Ian, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

### Updates

#### Bryan

- PR for `figure` class
- Issue/PR triage and review
- Two PRs to Dask for upcoming 3.0 changes

#### Mateusz

- continued work on the the new CSS layout (PR #11915)
- improvements to component styling (PR #11948)
- introduced `GridPlot` model (PR #11945)
- unified single and multi plot toolbars (PR #11944)
- started working on separation of tools and their UI
- added a checkbox-like `Switch` widget (PR #11933)
- redesigning `Legend` annotation with layout (PR #11949)
- further improvements to bokeh's integration tests (PR #11943)
- dropped support for Python 3.7 (PR #11931)
- reduced usage of `typing_extensions` (due to py3.8) (PR #11941)
- improved JSON serialization by fixing `_may_have_unstable_defaults()` (PR #11939)
- request render when fonts are finally loaded (PR #11929)
- fixed handling of tap events by UI event bus (PR #11938)
- working on a new set of SVG tool icons (off PR #11948)

#### Ian

- looking at docs for contouring

#### Philipp

- upgrading Panel 1.0 branch for Bokeh 3.0
- discussion for shadow DOM changes
- potential client interest in timeseries improvements in Bokeh

#### Timo

- Started working on new tutorial notebooks

### Actions

## 05-Jan

*Attending: Bryan, Ian, Jim, Mateusz, Pavithra, Philipp, Timo*

### Agenda

- FYI Bokeh 10yr March 24th

### Updates

#### Mateusz

- finalized migration to shadow DOM and web components (PR #11239)
  - redesigned and robustified selenium integration tests
- initial draft of the new CSS (unmanaged) layout (PR #11915)
- bokehjs palettes' improvements and visual tests (PR #11921)
- switched to nodejs 16.x and npm 8.x for development and testing (PR #11919)
- made bokehjs' CI jobs fail if the repository gets dirty (PR #11920)
- removed MacOS/Windows baselines and simplified testing workflow (PR #11906)
- fixed gmaps' related regressions and simplified the implementation (PR #11928)
- upgraded to mypy 0.920 and fixed typing issues (PR #11907)
- various improvements to toolbars
  - added support for adding toolbar to inner frame (PR #11926)
  - added support for auto-hidded grid toolbars (PR #11923)
  - improved overall robustness of auto-hidden toolbars (PR #11918)

### Actions

- [ ] (Bryan) Cut new dev release
- [ ] (Bryan, Timo) OSDC tutorial outline
