# Q4 2023 / Bokeh Weekly Sync :sparkles:

**Welcome!**

:computer: We meet here: meet.google.com/dtm-iycn-ctx

:clock8: Every Wednesday, at 8am Pacific Time

to chat about everything Bokeh!

## Guidelines

- This meeting is covered by [Bokeh â€™s Code of Conduct](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/blob/branch-3.1/docs/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
- If you wish to participate in a discussion, please use Google Meet's "Raise hands :hand: " feature, and wait for the moderator to call on you.
- These notes are [synced with GitHub](https://github.com/bokeh/pm/blob/master/minutes/weekly/YYYY-MM.md) after the meeting, where you can find past meeting notes.


## TOC

* [13-Dec](#13-Dec)
* [06-Dec](#06-Dec)
* [29-Nov](#29-Nov)
* [22-Nov](#22-Nov)
* [15-Nov](#15-Nov)
* [08-Nov](#08-Nov)
* [01-Nov](#01-Nov)
* [25-Oct](#25-Oct)
* [18-Oct](#18-Oct)
* [11-Oct](#11-Oct)
* [04-Oct](#04-Oct)

---

## 13-Dec

Moderator: Bryan

Notetaker: Isaiah

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Mateusz
* Isaiah
* Bryan
* Demetris
* Pavithra
* Timo


### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Bryan - Check back with Ian in January, 2024

### 4. Updates

*Active contributors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- redesigned UI gesture handling and dropped `hammerjs` (PR #12831)
  - this includes zero-latency tap support
- redesigned pinch zoom (PR #13595)
- work in progress on "floating" UIs (PR #13538)
- work in progress on toolbar and tool handling improvements (PR #13571)
- finalizing work on fixes to `Range.{min,max}_interval` handling (PR #13561)
- working on improvements to `RangesUpdate` event
- finalized and tested `{H,V}AreaStep` hit-testing (PR #13294)

#### Demetris
- updated the log render count [PR #13503](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/13503) with context. 
- Will try the approach of emitting messages with 'trace' level logging.

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

#### Bryan
- Plan on skipping the weekly updates for 27th Dec, 2023 and 3rd Jan, 2024.

#### Timo
- Different complaints from folks about docs build on Windows. A lot of different issues.
    - Should we drop it totally?
    - Other suggestions on how to handle it

#### Bryan
- Thoughts about restructuring the docs reference guide


### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Plan for end of January to revisit the docs build issue on windows.

## 06-Dec

Moderator: Isaiah

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Mateusz
* Victoria
* Isaiah
* Demetris
* Pavithra
* Timo
* Philipp

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*


### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Bryan - Check back with Ian in a month (First week of December, 2023)
    - moved to Jan

### 4. Updates

*Active contributors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- work in progress on "floating" UI (PR #13538)
- fixed `RangeTool` not respecting `Range.{min,max}_interval` (PR #13561)
- redesigned toolbar to allow custom UIs and multi-toolbar support (PR #13571)
- finalizing work on basic measurement tools and shape models (PR #13279)
- optimization and performance regression fixes to glyph index mamangement (PR #13562)
- finished work on zero latency tap gesture detection (PR #12831)
- work in progress on replacement of hammerjs for gesture recoginition (PR this week)
- fixed support for global/local imported stylesheets and added tests (PR #13559)
- migrated bokehjs' bundles from ES2017 standard to ES2020 (PR #13565)
- fixed arrow keys' support in `AutocompleteInput` (PR #13577)
- fixed regression in release toolchain to allow 3.4.0-dev.4 release (PR #13569)
- released bokeh 3.3.2

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*


### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

- Demetris 
    - submitted a grant proposal to improve ML visualizations in Bokeh
- Pavithra
    - submitted the accessibility-focused CZi proposal
    - Will plan some resource clean-up co-working sessions to go through various Bokeh spaces and update access + document

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

## 29-Nov

Moderator: Pavithra

Notetaker: Timo

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Mateusz
* Pavithra
* Timo
* Isaiah
* Bryan

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

N/A

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- added support for non-visual glyph data properties overrides (PR #13554)
  - redesign the type system around data properties, reducing duplication and complexity
- redesigned slider widgets and improved their overall behavior (PR #13551)
  - adds supports for property type overrides (e.g. `value = Override(Int())`)
- added support for progress widgets (linear, circular, definite, indefinite) (PR #13546)
- added experimental support for dynamic loading of bokehjs' bundles (PR #13547)
- added support for xor selection mode and selection inversion (PR #13545)
  - selection inversion only for point selections for now
  - this effectively allows deselection with `TapTool`
- continued work on "floating" UI elements (PR #13538)
- finalizing work on the initial set of measurement tools (PR #13279)
  - this includes very experimental "shapes" API
- partially fixed `max_interval` issue in `RangeTool` (PR later this week)
  - found undrelated issues in range management code
- fixed broken image index computations (PR later today)
  - found issues with handling of `image_indices` in the selection code path
- did some profiling work on bokehjs
  - will submit a PR will some "low hanging fruit" type improvements
- work in progress on tool statefulness/modality
  - trying to finish zero latency tap PR #12831

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

N/A

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Bryan: 3.2.2 release today? Can still include more requests, no time pressure anymore. Tentatively aim for sometime this week (Isaiah and Bryan to do release, coordinate via Slack)
* Mateusz: tried to release a new dev version, but something seems broken, potentially related to package.json
* Bryan: reply to questionaire from Numfocus initiative about code of conduct (with Pavithra)

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

## 22-Nov

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Isaiah

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Mateusz
* Isaiah
* Timo
* Bryan
* Pavithra
* Victoria

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

N/A

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Bryan - Check back with Ian in a month (First week of December, 2023)
    - Pushed to first week of January

### 4. Updates

*Active contributors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- work in progress on UIs (PR #13538)
  - implements dialogs, panels, toolbars, notifications, etc.
- work in progress on the design of modality of tools
- decoupled `Tool` event handlers from `Tool` active/state handling (PR #13540)
  - simplifies/robustifies handling of `pinch` and `wheel` gestures in zooming
  - partially fixes `pinch` event handling on touch devices
- fixed performance regression in algorithms used by eqhist (PR #13543)
- work in progress on fixing `max_interval` support in `RangeTool`
- finalized work on default values in CDS/EditTool (PR #13518)
- renamed `ColorMap` to `PaletteSelect` and improved its functionality (PR #13537)
- work in progress on a few new widgets (progress, tree select, etc.)

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

### 6. Discussion items

#### Bryan
- Any plans on point release?
    - Probably next week (after Thanksgiving)
- Plans on posting about our NF SDG on social media
    - We should plan on pivoting away from twitter. We can start the discussion on GitHub about other options
    - We have a handle on fosstodon already

#### Mateusz
- Past actions on removing Docker?
    - (Bryan) Plans on getting to it after Thanksgiving
    - Victoria has a Windows machine. We can try it out there.

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

## 15-Nov

Moderator: Isaiah

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Mateusz
* Isaiah
* Bryan
* Timo
* Philipp
* Pavithra
* Demetris

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

N/A

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Philipp/Mateusz - Ian's branch that logs render counts (CZI work depends on this), open a PR
    - Still a WIP, Demetris will add some notes
- [ ] Bryan - Create a discussion on Docker with the option of removing it.
    - WIP
- [ ] Bryan - Check back with Ian in a month (First week of December, 2023)

### 4. Updates

*Active contributors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- work in progress on UIs (initial PR later this week)
  - implements dialogs, panels, toolbars, notifications, etc.
- started migration of SlickGrid to version 5.x (PR #13522)
- enabled `"use strict";` and fixed bokehjs' bundles (PR #13523)
- attempted replacing hammerjs with in-house implementation
- experimental support for structured `dtype`
- experimental support for sparse arrays

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*


### 6. Discussion items

- Tidelift - security concern re generating unescaped JS
    - we're rejecting because this is intentional + not security risk
    - Email fwd'd for more details
    - Put in a wiki (or some other place for visibility)

- Promote on socials
    - SDG grant
    - SciPy tutorial rec. are available
    - API slightly out-of-date: there is a deprecation warning

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Mateusz/Bryan - Investigate Arrow
- [ ] Bryan - Look into tutorial updates


## 08-Nov

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Isaiah

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Philipp
* Victoria
* Bryan
* Mateusz
* Timo


### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*
N/A

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [x] Bryan/Isaiah - Check with NF re: SDG

### 4. Updates

*Active contributors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- finalized and merged editable labels PR (PR #12825)
- finalized `BOKEH_DEV` workflow (PR #13042)
- added support for default values to CDS/EditTool (PR #13518)
- finalized Bryan's circle vs. scatter API PR (PR #13283)
- finalized @ndmlny-qs' PR fixing `BoxAnnotation`'s scoping issues (PR #13501)
- allowed options' values of any type in `Select` (PR #13497)
  - adds support for reactive HTML to `InputWidget.title`
  - finishes and improves implementation of `HTML` and `ValueOf` models
- finalizing PR from @MarcSkovMadsen fixing CSS `font-size` (PR #13282)
- workin in progress on (tooltip) templating improvements for "deep inspections"
- workin in progress on widgets/UIs for annotations and data entry
- workin in progress on CSS variables

#### Isaiah
 - Our NumFocus proposal was approved: "**Empowering Aspiring Data Scientists and Encouraging Open Source Contribution in Nigeria through Bokeh Data Visualization Workshops**"
     - I plan to start preparations next month with the tutorial materials.
     - Actual workshops are scheduled from Jan 2024.

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

#### Bryan
- 3.3.1 rc1 has been published
- Full release will be published soon
    - Will need to announce on social media channels
- BEP 6 has been updated

### 6. Discussion items

- What should we do about Docker?
    - Start a discussion to decide on it
    - Ping people in the past who have used Docker

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Philipp/Mateusz - Ian's branch that logs render counts (CZI work depends on this), open a PR
    - Still a WIP
- [ ] Create a discussion on Docker with the option of removing it.
- [ ] Bryan - Check back with Ian in a month (First week of December, 2023)


## 01-Nov

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Timo
* Philipp
* Victoria
* Isaiah
* Demetris
* Pavithra
* Bryan

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

N/A

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

N/A

### 4. Updates

*Active contributors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- finalized fixes to background/border visuals in SVG (PR #13363)
- upgraded to Chromium 118 in bokehjs' tests (PR #13363)
- fixed blinking behaviour in `ImageURL` glyph (PR #13496)
- optimized performance of visual baseline testing (PR #13493)
  - extracted from previous LFS migration PR and improved
- added rudimentary `CategoricalSlider` (PR #13489)
  - redesigned/robustified sliders' views
- migrated `Stamen` tile provider to `Stadia.Stamen` (PR #13491)
- work in progress on improvements to `Dialog`
- work in progress on CSS variable based theming
- work in progress on dict/Map deserialization
- work in progress on math text, text node and composite glyphs
- finalized bug/regresion fixes for bokeh 3.3.1

PRs needing review:

- Editable labels: https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/12825
- `BOKEH_DEV` workflow: https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/13042

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

N/A

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 3.3.1
    * Bryan has backports branch release - will merge and cut a dev release
    * There is a pending issue in the milestone
    * Can release next monday after testing 

* Ian ( contributor and core team member) temporarily on hiatus:
    * Meeting rotation: Isaiah, Victoria, and Demetris volunteer :tada:
    * PR reviewers: Brayn can help where possible, Simon (Anaconda) can help :sparkles: 
    
* Heard back from NF re: SDG?
    * Acceptance went out on Monday? Need to check if it's on a rolling basis

* Open call: review the docs and open issues

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Philipp/Demetris - Ian's branch that logs render counts (CZI work depends on this), open a PR
- [ ] Bryan - Check back with Ian in a month?
- [x] Bryan/Isaiah - Check with NF re: SDG

## 25-Oct

Moderator: ~~Timo~~ Pavithra

Notetaker: Ian

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
*  Bryan
*  Ian
*  Isaiah
*  Mateusz
*  Pavithra
*  Philipp

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [x] Bryan - update to Arliss for newsletter


### 4. Updates

*Active contributors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- worked on migration of visual baselines to LFS
- fixed floating promises in bokehjs
- modernization of bokehjs' interactive tests
- work in progress on improvements to `Dialog`
- work in progress on CSS variable based theming
- work in progress on dict/Map deserialization
- bug fixes for bokeh 3.3.1

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Bryan - release maintainers team added to github to control access to release github actions.

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 3.3.1
    * Backports PR in progress
    * Mateusz working on tests on 2 PRs
    * Release probably on Monday
* Bryan - retirement of old branches, discussion open, comments welcome.
    * Mostly a UI issue, not use of resources
    * It also explicitly shows that those branches are not going to be maintained any more (Mateusz).

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item


## 18-Oct

Moderator: Pavithra

Notetaker: ~~Timo~~ Ian

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Bryan
* Ian
* Isaiah
* Mateusz
* Pavithra
* Philipp

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

* started migration of visual baselines from the repository to LFS (PR #13453)
    * 20 MB per clone, one clone per CI run (ubuntu CI only)
    * Baseline tests run slower in CI
* finalized work on editable `Label` and other improvements (PR #12825)
  * makes `Label`'s functionality on par with `Text` glyph
* more progress on replacing annotations with glyphs (PR #13344)
  * migrated `LabelSet`
* finalizing migration from plain objects to `Map` (PR #13437)
  * adds support for asymmetric setters and getters to bokehjs' models
* improvements to signal handling in `CDSView` and `Filter` (PR #13442)
  * includes a refactoring of composite filters
* added support for `inspection_policy` to data sources (PR #13439)
  * unifies handling of selections and inspections
* fixed `RangeTool` regression in notebook/jlab (PR #13457)
* fixed `Tooltip` positioning regression in jlab (PR #13431)
* fixed cloning of models with readonly properties (PR #13443)
* work in progress on CSS variable-based theming
* work in progress on math text glyph and other improvements (for SDG)

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Updates to Arliss for newsletter - Bryan to do so (release blog post)

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Bryan - Old repos https://github.com/bokeh/pm/issues/10 - can we remove or archive?
    * Add feedback to discussion please
* Bryan - "Easy" external legends https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/discussions/13409
    * Add feedback to discussion please
* 3.3.1 - some small but important fixes to go in, maybe next week.

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Bryan - update to Arliss (see above)


## 11-Oct

Moderator: Ian

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Timo
* Ian
* Mateusz
* Pavithra
* Philipp
* Demetris

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

N/A

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

N/A

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- issue triage
- multiple bug and regression fixes
- cleaning up PR queue
- CSS variable-based theming
- SDG - composite glyphs and graph improvemetns

#### CZI (Demetris)

- R5 work is on pause
- Submitting LOI for R6

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 3.3 released

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 3.3.1 (issue #13428)
    * redesigned tooltips don't work in NB - major bug which will need a patch release soon
    * switch to playwright? (eventually)
        * we can start by setting up the testing infra

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [x] Mateusz, Pavithra - 3.3 Blog post follow-up


## 04-Oct

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Ian


### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Bryan
* Ian
* Isaiah
* Mateusz
* Timo
* Pavithra

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [x] Pavithra - Set up a call with Philipp to chat grants
    - will update on slack

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

* Finished existing CZI PRs
    * Scale bar
    * Subcoordinate zooming
* Preliminary fix for event propagation
* urllib3 problemn again
* SDG design work on graphs, mathtext
* 3.3 release notes

#### Bryan

* New example plots, how/where to organise
* Legend outside plot, workaround
    * Have to create legend before plots
    * Discussion open on this


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

*

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 3.3 release
    * Draft blog post by Victoria (link in slack)
    * RC today
        * Only blocker in urllib3 PR
    * Plan for actual release on Monday
        * Isaiah and Ian to shadow Bryan following the release process
    * Bryan wants to do some notebook testing between RC and release
    * Mateusz moved many issues to 3.4 or 3.x, some that are left may be relevant for this release (Bryan to check)


### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item


---

<details>
    <summary>Template</summary>

## DD MMM

Moderator: ...

Notetaker: ...

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* 

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

</details>