# Q2 2023 / Bokeh Weekly Sync

**Welcome!**

:computer: We meet here: meet.google.com/dtm-iycn-ctx

:clock8: Every Wednesday, at 8am Pacific Time

to chat about everything Bokeh!

## Guidelines

- This meeting is covered by [Bokeh ’s Code of Conduct](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/blob/branch-3.1/docs/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
- If you wish to participate in a discussion, please use Google Meet's "Raise hands :hand: " feature, and wait for the moderator to call on you.
- These notes are [synced with GitHub](https://github.com/bokeh/pm/blob/master/minutes/weekly/YYYY-MM.md) after the meeting, where you can find past meeting notes.


## TOC

* [03-May](#03-May)
* [26-Apr](#26-Apr)
* [19-Apr](#19-Apr)
* [12-Apr](#12-Apr)
* [05-Apr](#05-Apr)


## 03-May

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Ian

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Philipp
* Mateusz
* Demetris
* Pavithra
* Bryan
* Timo
* Victoria
* Ian
* Ajoke

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Mateusz -- Create a discussion to make a decision around handling margins (maybe removing it eventually) - not yet
- [ ] Pavithra -- Pick up discussion on plausible/matomo - not yet
- [x] Brendan/Victoria -- plan SciPy announcements - scheduled to go out shortly
- [ ] Bryan -- update the existing draft BEP for privacy policy - not yet
- [x] ~~Pavithra - share EuroSciPy info with others, prepare short tutorial submission~~ (decided not to submit)


### 4. Updates

*Active contributors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- finalized support for shadow DOM in `ipywidgets_bokeh` (PR #95)
- fixed race conditions in layout resize, update and readiness reporting (PR #13100)
- improvements to axes (axes indepenent of layout, configurable axis face, more visuals) (PR #13106)
- restarted work on canvas layouts (multiple legends, colorbars etc.) in preparation for sub-plots
- continuted work on independent zoom (and pan) of secondary ranges/scales (PR #13049)

#### CZI R5 (Demetris)

- Met with collaborating scientists, requirements capture
    - Performant image stack viewer would be useful
    - Working on demo workflows, will present group
    - Will identify performance bottlenecks
    - Mateusz starting on ridgeplot shortly (see above)

#### Timo

- Documentation updates
- Unpinning sphinx
- Working on fixing autoclasstoc problems
    - (Bryan) maybe just remove this in the short term for the release
- Should be OK for next release

#### TBD


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Successfully awarded NumFOCUS Small Development Grant for "Rendering LaTeX equations in TARDIS plasma graphs using Bokeh”.
    * Public announcement (blog, twitter, etc)?
    * Ian to write up a few sentences and provide to Bryan/Victoria
    * Pavithra Existing proposal has lots of info suitable for blog
* Outreachy intern announced tomorrow, social post (Pavithra)
* Github labels for funded work (Ian)
    * Timo - Previously used github project 
    * Demetris - CZI is cross-project so managed at that level
    * Ian - NumFOCUS SDG is small enough to not need lots of management
    
### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Release 3.1.1 (Bryan)
    * Backports PR in progress
    * Help needed identifying other PRs that need to be backported, let Bryan know
        * Probably nothing else needed (Mateusz)
    * Needs a baseline image updated - yes
    * Intention is to support Panel 1.0 release
    * End of the week may be doable
    * No major announcements necessary, post in discourse only
* Need to start on SciPy tutorial soon! (Pavithra)
    * Alternatives to Binder for jupyter notebooks (Bryan), Philipp may provide help
* Longer term
    * Some Panel docs on pyodide should be copied across to Bokeh docs

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Mateusz -- Create a discussion to make a decision around handling margins (maybe removing it eventually) - carried forward
- [ ] Pavithra -- Pick up discussion on plausible/matomo - carried forward
- [ ] Bryan -- update the existing draft BEP for privacy policy - carried forward
- [ ] Ian - draft of twitter post about SDG to supply to Bryan/Victoria
- [ ] Release 3.1.1
    

## 26-Apr

Moderator: Ian/Pavithra

Notetaker: Ian

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Ajoke
* Demetris
* Ian
* Mateusz
* Pavithra
* Philipp

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Mateusz -- Create a discussion to make a decision around handling margins (maybe removing it eventually) - bump to next week
- [ ] Pavithra -- Pick up discussion on plausible/matomo - bump to next week
- [ ] Brendan/Victoria -- plan SciPy announcements
- [ ] Bryan -- update the existing draft BEP for privacy policy

### 4. Updates

*Active contributors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- fixed a race condition between plot and canvas resize (PR #13100)
- finalized and merged span and strip glyphs (PR #12677)
- started work on `HoverTool`'s formatters improvements (PR #13096)

#### CZI R5 (Demetris)

- nothing further to report

#### TBD


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* PyPI organization - Bryan, Ian, Pavithra, Timo added so far
* EuroSciPy (Pavithra)
    * Mateusz may submit something too
    
### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Release
    * 3.2 held back
    * 3.1.1 quite soon, latest fixes, possibly even next week, backports of other recent fixes?

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Mateusz -- Create a discussion to make a decision around handling margins (maybe removing it eventually) - bump to next week
- [ ] Pavithra -- Pick up discussion on plausible/matomo - bump to next week
- [ ] Brendan/Victoria -- plan SciPy announcements
- [ ] Bryan -- update the existing draft BEP for privacy policy
- [ ] Pavithra - share EuroSciPy info with others, prepare short tutorial submission


## 19-Apr

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Timo

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Victoria
* Jim
* Mateusz
* Demetris
* Bryan
* Ajoke
* Philipp

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Mateusz -- Create a discussion to make a decision around handling margins (maybe removing it eventually)
- [x] Bryan, Pavithra -- Review Victoria's blog post + feedback from the team
- [x] Victoria? -- Update first-steps guide with information on running python scripts 
- [ ] Pavithra -- Pick up discussion on plausible/matomo

### 4. Updates

*Active contributors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- `bokeh`
  - working on reliability of async server tests (PR #13091)
  - finalized work on span and strip glyphs (PR #12677) [docs TBD]
  - working on independent zoom of secondary ranges/scales (PR #13049)
  - working on scale indicator annotation
  - working on a fix to a race condition in layout updates
  - published version 3.2.0.dev1
- `ipywidgets_bokeh`
  - added support for shadow DOM to "native" ipywidgets (PR #92)
  - working on shadow DOM support in third-party ipywidgets
  - working on fixing communication issues (PR #93)
  - published version 1.4.0.dev1

#### CZI R5 ()

Demitris
- meeting last week to look into collaborator workflows for imaging (e.g. bigger video streams, finding bottleecks) got pushed to next week
- creating preliminary workflows, benchmarking
- still in requirement gathering stage

#### TBD


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* SciPy tutorial accepted! Next steps?
    
### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* (Optional) Input from the team on their favorite Bokeh plot(s) in the Gallery for an upcoming blog post. 
* 3.2 release 
    * Bryan: potentially another month to finish (also update docs infrastructure - unpin sphinx, theme, etc), use May for polish and clean up
    * Jim: Mateusz has list of potential additinal features
    * Philipp: Make sure race condition is fixed
    * Bryan: decide on feature freeze around mid May, to be able to work on stability and docs

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Mateusz -- Create a discussion to make a decision around handling margins (maybe removing it eventually)
- [ ] Pavithra -- Pick up discussion on plausible/matomo
- [ ] Brendan/Victoria -- plan SciPy announcements
- [ ] Bryan -- update the existing draft BEP for privacy policy

## 12-Apr

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Ajoke 
* Victoria
* Bryan
* Pavithra
* Timo
* Mateusz
* Philipp
* Demetris

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* Demetris -- works with Philipp and Jim at Anaconda

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [x] Ian -- make PR to Dask repo (ping Philipp and Bryan in PR). PR not necessary, `distributed` added Bokeh 3 support (https://github.com/dask/distributed/pull/7413) 2 weeks ago.

### 4. Updates

*Active contributors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- fixed/improved `MultiRootStaticHandler` after recent changes (PR #13070)
  - added tests
- started working on embedding with ESM bundles (PR #13074)
  - renamed bundles to `*.mjs`
- fixing issues with top-level margin support in the layout (PR #13075)
- wrapping up work on new span/strip glyphs (PR #12677)
- still working on `ipywidgets_bokeh`
- wrapping up work on initial ESM support in `CustomJS` (PR #12812)
- fixed issues with unneded selections in WebKit when using sliders (PR #13082)
- started work on scale indicator annotation and more flexible axes

#### CZI R5 (Demetris)

- Early stages, gathering reqs. & user research
- Stacking time series
- Scaling ref: https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/12068
    - Plus, add scale indicators, anootations, etc.

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Victoria - Blog posts on highlighting some gallery examples
* Outreachy, next step is selecting an intern :)

    
### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* NASA / CZI grants around improving accessibility
* Google Analytics turned off on discourse and other properties
* Adopt NFs blanket privacy policy 

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Mateusz -- Create a discussion to make a decision around handling margins (maybe removing it eventually)
- [ ] Bryan, Pavithra -- Review Victoria's blog post
- [ ] Victoria? -- Update first-steps guide with inforamtion on running python scripts
- [ ] Pavithra -- Pick up discussion on plausible/matomo

## 05-Apr

Moderator: Ian

Notetaker: Timo

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Ajoke
* Ian
* Mateusz
* Timo
* Bryan
* Isaiah
* Victoria
* James
* Philipp

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* None

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- None

### 4. Updates

*Active contributors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- added support for `Axis.axis_label_orientation` (PR #13044)
- added support for independent zooming of axes (PR #13049)
- finalizing work on H/V span and strip glyphs (PR #12677)
- minor progress on web assembly support (PR #12961)
- switch conda solver to use libmamba in CI (PR #13061)
- check if sample data files are up-to-date (PR #13059)
- correctly resolve custom host and port with server resources (PR #13041)
- working on bokeh/bokehjs development workflow improvements (PR #13042)
- working on reducing verbosness of bokeh server's logs (PR #13038)
- fixed an example that was failing with pandas 2.0 (PR #13057)

#### CZI R5 (Jim)
Diving into tests. Meeting with Mateusz to outline his focus areas (mostly subplots-related). Dmitri is collecting concrete workflows for biological tasks. Performance optimization is postponed until working on those tasks is complete.
Bryan: Received message regarding invoicing


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* At the end of next week, we should find out about NumFocus SDG and SciPy talks
    
### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Dask and distributed updates. Ian tried to get in touch, no reply yet. Suggestion: write PR to their repo (Ian)
* 3.2 release: 
    * Mateusz: Today was inital target data, but two PRs still pending. RC potentially at end of this week.
    * Bryan: try to get even months for releases - having a release anytime this month should be OK. Sounds like there isn't a lot of user-facing changes. Towards the end of this month should be fine.
    * Ian: No rush, this month would be good
* Victoria: idea from Outreachy: have a quick intro for Bokeh
    * Bryan: blog post would be great
    * Ian: Overlap with other discussions, we have also talked about Video in the past
* Isaiah: Some weeks ago, Bryan mentioned holding back with Outreachy PRs for team to catch up. 
    * Bryan: leave some work in the micro tasks for the future, especially keep working on other issues in the tracker. Also, reach out on Slack/GitHub!
* Jim: Discussions with NumFocus (Katrina Riehl), taking on pyviz.org as a project. What initiatives could we suggest to improve cooperation between libraries, now that there is someone to push this? Reach out to Katrina or Jim, or open a discussion on pyvit.org!
    * Bryan: Harder part is getting people together... maybe something like survey content as low-hanging fruit to start with
* Isaiah: Building docs on Windows?
    * Ian: some issues are windows specific, part of it is more fundamental
    * Mateusz: No progress yet, will try to get that fixed
    * Ian: WSL is one potential way forward
    * Mateusz: maybe just create that file, no matter what is in it?
    * Timo: In addition to the general file-related issue there is also a Windows-specific issue if some paths that might be off in the BAT file
    * Ian: potentially also docker image - we need to make it better!

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Ian -- make PR to Dask repo (ping Philipp and Bryan in PR)

<details>
    <summary>
        Meeting template.
    </summary>

## DD-MMM

Moderator: ...

Notetaker: ...

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* 

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

### 4. Updates

*Active contributors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

#### CZI R5 ()

#### TBD


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

*
    
### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

    
</details>