# Q1 2023 / Bokeh Weekly Sync

**Welcome!**

:computer: We meet here: meet.google.com/dtm-iycn-ctx

:clock8: Every Wednesday, at 8am Pacific Time

to chat about everything Bokeh!

## Guidelines

- This meeting is covered by [Bokeh â€™s Code of Conduct](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/blob/branch-3.1/docs/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
- If you wish to participate in a discussion, please use Google Meet's "Raise hands :hand: " feature, and wait for the moderator to call on you.
- These notes are [synced with GitHub](https://github.com/bokeh/pm/blob/master/minutes/weekly/YYYY-MM.md) after the meeting, where you can find past meeting notes.


## TOC

* [04 Jan](#04-Jan)
* [11 Jan](#11-Jan)

<details>
    <summary>
        Meeting template.
    </summary>

## DD-MMM

Moderator: ...

Notetaker: ...

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* 

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

### 4. Updates

*Active contributors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

#### CZI R5 ()

#### TBD


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

*

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item


</details>

---

## 11 Jan

Moderator: Pavithra

Notetaker: Timo

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Victoria
* Timo
* Ian
* Bryan
* Philipp
* Mateusz
* James
* Pavithra

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

### 4. Updates

*Active contributors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- finalizing work on persistent selections (PR #12468)
  - allow only one region select tool at a time independently of gestures
- finalizing work on webgl improvements (PR #12704)
- working on canvas layouts (e.g. multi legend or color bar support)
- working on CSS variable-base API and theming
- renamed `select_every_mousemove` to `continuous`
  - also now all gesture select tools support `continuous` consistently
  - added support for `DeprecatedAlias` pseudo property
- fixed perfomance issues with `regl` due to interference with `source-map-support` (PR #12722)
- switched to separate TypeScript compilation (`isolatedModules`) (PR #12723)
  - allows to use third-party tooling that usually assumes separate compilation
- refactored `qbb()` and `cbb()`, and fixed usage error (PR #12725)
  - fixed probably a decade old bug
- removed leftover legacy CSS (PR #12715)

#### CZI R5 (Bryan, Jim)

NF contract ready, in touch via email - currently access issues

#### Demo of Lumen (Philipp)

https://lumen.holoviz.org/
Announcement blog post soon

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* [BEP 10: Policy for Experimental Features](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/wiki/BEP-10:-Policy-for-Experimental-Features)


### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Ian - propose recording people's longer term plans for the project:
    * Project roadmap https://bokeh.org/roadmap/ (Bryan: would make sense to revisit once a quarter - high-level overview)
    * Personal roadmaps: GitHub wiki
    * Other ideas for personal roadmaps that were discussed: Roadmap discussions e.g. contouring (https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/discussions/12234) and WebGL (https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/discussions/11369),  Start on Slack?
    * Iteration plans (Mateusz)
* Pavithra - We're planning to participate in Outreachy May'23 round
    * Join #outreachy on Slack to get involved
    * Commitment of time? Pavithra: Not yet, while we are proposing ideas (could be any sort of diea, code, documentation, community, etc). Bryan: With enough concrete ideas, mentoring becomes easier. One idea so far: dark mode for docs (incl. dark mode theme for Bokeh). Could use input on more ideas! Pavithra: Internship is 3 moth - for something an experienced core-contributor would take around two weeks to work on. Commitment: up to 10 hours a week.
* Pavithra - SciPy'23 proposal, let's decide on a time for scoping call.
    * Call for brainstorming, probably same time as weekly?
    * Friday 01/13, 8 AM Pacific!

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Bryan -- check CZI contract access for Jim

## 04 Jan

Moderator: Ian

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here (Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)).*

* Ian @ianthomas23
* Pavithra / she-her / @pavithraes
* Timo
* Bryan
* Mateusz
* Philipp
* Victoria
* James


### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* NA for this week.

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Philipp -- Demo of Lumen! (postponed)

### 4. Updates

*Active contributors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- added support for `Legend` item background color and fill policies (PR #12701)
- finalized `Text` glyph improvements (PR #12655)
  - added support for background, border, anchor, padding and border radius
  - added support for border radius to `Rect` and LRTB-like glyphs
  - added support for webgl rendering of boxes with rounded corners
- added webgl support for `Annulus`, `Wedge`, `AnnularWedge` and `Ellipse` glyphs (PR #12704)
  - simplified loading of GL glyphs (greatly reduces code duplication)
  - simplified/robustified initialization and data management in GL glyphs
- experimenting with webgl support for line-like glyphs (e.g. `Segment`)
- experimenting with non-glyph webgl render (annotations, grids and axes)
- working on a CSS variable API and CSS theming support
- working on exposing canvas layout APIs (row, column, grid)
- working on off-plot legends and annotations in general (issue #7607)
- exploring options for improving bokehjs build times

#### CZI R5 (Jim)

- Anaconda has submitted paperwork to NumFocus to begin contracting process; no response yet.


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* N/A for this week.

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* next release timeline
    * 3.1 release at the end of Jan
    * RC in mid-Jan
* Email about in-kind support to Bokeh
* Bokeh tutorial at [SciPy 2023](https://www.scipy2023.scipy.org/).
    * CFP deadline is 22nd Feb
    * Bryan, Ian, Timo, Pavithra, Victoria are interested
    * WIP tutorial: https://github.com/bokeh/tutorial


### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [x] Mateusz -- Update list of supported webgl glyphs in the [user guide](https://docs.bokeh.org/en/latest/docs/user_guide/output/webgl.html#supported-glyphs)
- [x] Victoria -- Create a Slack channel to discuss SciPy things
- [ ] Philipp -- Demo of Lumen!