
**Welcome!**

:computer: We meet here: meet.google.com/dtm-iycn-ctx

:clock8: Every Wednesday, at 8am Pacific Time

to chat about everything Bokeh!

## Guidelines

- This meeting is covered by [Bokeh â€™s Code of Conduct](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/blob/branch-3.1/docs/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
- If you wish to participate in a discussion, please use Google Meet's "Raise hands :hand: " feature, and wait for the moderator to call on you.
- These notes are [synced with GitHub](https://github.com/bokeh/pm/blob/master/minutes/weekly/YYYY-MM.md) after the meeting, where you can find past meeting notes.


## TOC

* [16-Aug](#16-Aug)
* [09-Aug](#09-Aug)
* [02-Aug](#02-Aug)
* [26-Jul](#26-Jul)
* [19-Jul](#19-Jul)
* [12-Jul](#12-Jul)
* [05-Jul](#05-Jul)


## 16-Aug

Moderator: Pavithra

Notetaker: Timo

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Pavithra / she-her / @pavithraes 
* Ian
* Mateusz
* Philipp
* Isaiah
* Timo

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

* `ScaleBar` annotation (done)
* some progress on canvas layouts (currently lower priority)
* hit testing for patches
* masked indices
* SDG-related work, LaTeX support and graph support

#### Outreachy (Isaiah)

* Finishing last week's tasks
* 1-on-1s finished
* Done with internship at the end of the month
* Work related to https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/13130


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* SDG applications now open: https://numfocus.org/programs/small-development-grants
    * Potentially educational initiatives, workshops, tutorial

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item



## 09-Aug

Moderator: Ian

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Pavithra / she-her / @pavithraes 
* Bryan
* Ian
* Demetris
* Isaiah
* Timo
* Mateusz
* Victoria

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Victoria, Pavithra, Bryan -- User survey - bumped from previous weeks.


### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

* `ScaleBar` annotation (PR later today)
* some progress on canvas layouts (currently lower priority)
* finalized work on `ColorMap` widget (needs tests)
* hit testing for patches
* masked indices
* SDG-related work, LaTeX support and graph support
* design work on canvas UI for annotations
* improvements to BokehJS dev+testing workflows
    * `node make test -e chromium_revision_number`

#### Outreachy (Isaiah)

* Still working on blog #5 -- should be done by EOW
* Will continue reaching out to folks for 1:1


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* NumFOCUS projects collaboration meeting on 18th Aug, 3pm GMT
    * Joining info: [Bokeh Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/1?cid=Y2FsZW5kYXJAYm9rZWgub3Jn)

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Project Summit in Sept - Victoria will go :tada: 

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item


## 02-Aug

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Ian

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Bryan
* Demetris
* Ian
* Isaiah
* Mateusz
* Pavithra
* Philipp
* Timo
* Victoria

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Victoria, Pavithra, Bryan -- User survey - no progress so far, bump to next week.


### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

* Continued progress on canvas layouts (PR #13286)
    * Much more work to do

#### Outreachy (Isaiah)

* 4th notebook and blog post up soon.
* Working on 5th notebook, possible by end of this week.
* Have talked to a few maintainers, plans to talk to a few more.

#### CZI (Demetris)

* Benchmarking infrastructure in place
* Demo work flows include some real data sets
* Various issues reported
* Mateusz' infrastructure work too

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* NumFOCUS Project summit:
    * Not sure if Victoria attending
    * Philipp may be attending, representing HoloViz

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Victoria, Pavithra, Bryan -- User survey - bumped from previous weeks.


## 26-Jul

Moderator: Pavithra

Notetaker: Timo

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Bryan
* Isaiah
* Philipp
* Ian
* Timo
* Pavithra
* Mateusz

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Victoria, Pavithra, Bryan -- User survey


### 4. Updates

*Active contributors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- initial prototype of canvas layouts (sub-plots, etc.) (PR later this week)
- improvements to hit testing and selections (PR #13277)
- added support for basic measurement tools (PR #13279) [currently measuring angles and distance]
  - adds new shapes API (scalar glyphs)
  - improvements to coordinates
    
#### Outreachy (Isaiah)

- Blog post is online
- Fourth blog post is in the works, probably done this week
- Half-way point!
- 1:1 discussions with team members
- Conference grant!

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* [Pavithra] New HackMD notes starting next week: https://hackmd.io/@bokeh/rk2uG2A9n
    * We start a new doc for each quarter and I forget this time
    * Will in update relevant space - Slack reminder, meeting invite, etc.
    
### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Bryan: received email from GitHub about changes in billing model around LFS (probably no effect, but some details unclear)

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Victoria, Pavithra, Bryan -- User survey


## 19-Jul

Moderator: Ian

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Mateusz
* Ian
* Philipp
* Isaiah
* Victoria
* Timo
* Pavithra

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Victoria, Pavithra, Bryan -- User survey (define questions, figure out hosting, spread the word) -- carried over

### 4. Updates

*Active contributors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- added support for `ColorMap` (palette selector) widget (PR #13269)
  - this effectively implements new `Select` widget that allows rich content
  - probably will also redesign `MultiSelect` to avoid using unmaintained `choices.js`
- fixed grid layout in `Legend` for an uneven number of items (PR #13263)
- started PR with backports for bokeh 3.2.1 (PR #13271)
- finalized work on cloning ndarrays in bokehjs (PR #13232)
- added support for merging `Toolbar.active_*` and other properties (PR #13267)
  - added support for `Figure.active_*` attributes to bokehjs
- fixed issues with high DPI export in `GridPlot` (PR #13253)
- fixed issues with rendering of undisplayed plots (PR #13250)
- fixed handling of `DatePicker.disabled` property (PR #13256)
- fixed regression related to `*.d.ts` files (due to `../core/kinds`) (PR #13254)
- making progress on CZI tasks (scale indicator, canvas layouts)
- working on releasing `jupyter_bokeh` compatible with jupyterlab 4.x
- minor progress on new bokehjs' build system

#### Outreachy (Isaiah)

- Next blog almost ready - final tweaks to denisty plot

#### SciPy 2023 (Ian)

- Bryan, Timo, Victoria and Ian present
- Tutorial successful
    - 70 attendees.
    - Nebari worked well.


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* NF all-projects meeting this Friday at 3pm GMT
    
### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 3.2.1
* [Isaiah] - Would like to have some informal 1:1 chats re careers/networking
    * Philipp, Timo, Ian

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item


## 12-Jul

**No meeting**


## 05-Jul

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Ian

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Bryan
* Demetris
* Ian
* Isaiah
* Pavithra
* Timo
* Victoria

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [] Victoria, Pavithra, Bryan -- User survey (define questions, figure out hosting, spread the word)
    - in progress, won't be ready for SciPy
    - Bryan: alternative communication channel


### 4. Updates

*Active contributors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- Nothing to report

#### CZI R5 (Demetris)
    
- Mateusz working on scalebar (ready soon) and ridgeplot (subcoordinates, end of July)
- Ian: benchmarking research in progress (PlayWright and ASV)
    - Wider use is a possibility

#### Outreachy (Isaiah)

- Next blog post should be ready by the end of the week.
- Will be posted on Medium.


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Because of SciPy next week, 4 core members probably won't be attending meeting next week.
    * Recommended to skip meeting next week.

    
### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Tweets about SciPy, signups are occurring now.
    * Yes we should tweet!
* Tweetdeck being removed? Other solution needed?
    * Password in 1Password


### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [x] Pavithra - cancel next week's meeting, or communicate that it is cancelled.
- [x] SciPy tweets - Bryan/Pavithra/Victoria



---

<details>
    <summary>
        Meeting template.
    </summary>

## DD MMM

Moderator: ...

Notetaker: ...

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* 

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)



### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

</details>