# Q1 2024 / Bokeh Weekly Sync :sparkles:

**Welcome!**

:computer: We meet here: meet.google.com/dtm-iycn-ctx

:clock8: Every Wednesday, at 8am Pacific Time

to chat about everything Bokeh!

## Guidelines

- This meeting is covered by [Bokeh â€™s Code of Conduct](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/blob/branch-3.1/docs/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
- If you wish to participate in a discussion, please use Google Meet's "Raise hands :hand: " feature, and wait for the moderator to call on you.
- These notes are [synced with GitHub](https://github.com/bokeh/pm/blob/master/minutes/weekly/YYYY-MM.md) after the meeting, where you can find past meeting notes.

## TOC

* [21-Feb](#21-Feb)
* [14-Feb](#14-Feb)
* [07-Feb](#07-Feb)
* [31-Jan](#31-Jan)
* [24-Jan](#24-Jan)
* [17-Jan](#17-Jan)
* [10-Jan](#10-Jan)

---

## 21 Feb

Moderator: Isaiah

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Timo
* Philipp
* Mateusz
* Ian
* Victoria
* Pavithra

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

N/A

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

N/A

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- finalized and merged a few PRs from external contributors (PR #13685, #13593, #13591)
- finalized migration to obligatory curly brackets (PR #13703)
- simplified and normalized enum definitions across bokehjs (PR #13701)
- resolved serialization issues (PR #13696)
- finalized work on `ValueRef` formatters (PR #13650)
  - improved and simplified templtating with DOM models
  - partially fixed an issue missing tooltip entries
- fixed mypy and ruff related CI failures (PR #13707)
- published bokeh 3.4.0-dev.8
- working on various CSS/theming/widget related PRs for 3.5
- fixing `Tabs` header scrolling regression (from bokeh 3.0)
- working on jupyter-bokeh release


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

N/A

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 3.4 RC timeline
    * Only concern is API changes - can be incorporated in the next release?
    * Philipp - Will try to complete ongoing work by EOW
    * mateusz - Need to complete ValueRef PR for this RC
    * **Aim for Monday**

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item


## 14 Feb

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Isaiah

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah 
* Mateusz
* Ian
* Bryan
* Pavithra
* Victoria
* Timo

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [x] Ian, Philipp -- Coordinate on the external contract work
    - Philipp is likely quoting for the work, Ian isn't.


### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- dealt with `hasOwnProperty` and related changes (PR #13689)
- resolving serialization regressions (PR #13677, new PR to supersede it)
- follow-up on "floating" UIs
- started work on theme switching in the UI (PR next week)
    - Bryan: Make sure we can create an Issue to collect the requirements in one place, to be handled by Mateusz
- restarted work on redesign of sliders, selects, etc.

#### NumFocus SDG (Isaiah)

- Held the Uyo workshop over the weekend of 10th and 11th Feb.
- Turn-out was great, about 40 persons.
- Time spent was about 6 hours each day.
- Some pictures shared on social media (FB, Twitter, LinkedIn)
- Setback during the Open Source part of the workshop was the participants unable to build the Bokeh docs on Windows. Only one participant had a Linux system and he was the only person able to complete the set-up process.
- Many folks on Social media are requesting that I come to their cities as well. No promises made.
- Next/final workshop will be held in Kaduna on the weekend of March 1st. Preparations are already underway.
    - Timo: Plan on making a blog post about the workshop?
        - Isaiah: Will consider it as part of the final report.

#### NumFOCUS Town Hall last Monday (Ian and Pavithra)

* Slide deck and audio file: https://github.com/numfocus/TownHallCommunityFeedback/issues/3
* Detailed notes: https://hackmd.io/chkHEixORx2qqy2ZMvSrNg
* About 95 people
* Key points:
    * New funding route "member program" as well as existing donations
    * Split board in 2 = admin + tech advisory
    * Different election process, projects have votes
    * Additional staff (1) full-time fundraising, (2) shared infrastructure e.g. build/benchmarking system
    * AI-supported knowledgebase
    * AI alliance - some very keen, some very skeptical
    * NumFOCUS in Europe

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Ian
    * Bokeh 3.3.4 pyodide build (https://github.com/pyodide/pyodide/blob/main/packages/bokeh/meta.yaml)
    * Philipp: Do we know how big the Pyodide file is, considering we were thinking about the size of our packages?
        * Ian - Didn't check the size, only updated it.
        * Mateusz - We had reduced the size in a previous update

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Timo - Experimenting on dev container for docs build on Windows. Still a WIP, that needs to be looked into. https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/13544#issuecomment-1920558988

    * Bryan - We can have a wiki page to direct people to who needs to build the docs on Windows
    * Timo - It also works locally

* Bryan - Heard back from the Scipy folks on having the Tutorial at the conference happening in Seattle. Anybody interested in attending can reach out on the docs channel on Slack
* Bryan - Thoughts on 3.4 release?
    * Mateusz - As soon as Serialization is done, perhaps rc in a week.
    * Bryan - Mid March or earlier seems like a good time to aim for.

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Philipp -- Keep an eye on the Pyodide build


## 07 Feb

Moderator: Pavithra

Notetaker: Timo

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Mateusz
* Bryan
* Demetris
* Mateusz
* Pavithra
* Timo
* Isaiah

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Ian, Philip -- Coordinate on the external contract work

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- finalized work on "floating" UIs (PR #13538) [partially reviewed by Philipp and Simon]
- continued work on serialization regressions (PR #13677) [WIP]

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Demo of "floating" UIs (Mateusz): Symbolic coordinate system that helps to synchronize between DOM-based and Canvas-based UIs. Opens up the possibility for several improvements, such as multiple attribution from any renderer, displaying a panel in the plot, adding a toolbar to the select box from the select tool, add a context menu to selections in the plot, support for multiple dialogs and stacking order.
* Bryan: Mobile compatibility? Mateusz: That should work
* Bryan: Make short video snippets of individual interactions. Mateusz: Already planning to do that for the docs

* Bryan: Planning over the next few months to restructure the reference guide to make it less complex and heavy. Will create an issue about that!

* Isaiah: Also update the tutorial with new floating UI features? Mateusz: This will take a release or two until it becomes fully usable and be polished - then it'll make more sense to add to the tutorial. Bryan: Please make issue on the tutorial repo as a reminder to add this once it is available. Mateusz: Symbolic coordinate system has simliarities with scalar properties that aren't used much, there might be some merging and expanding of those features at some point in the future. 

* Pavithra: SciPy deadline approaching? In Tacoma, WA this year! Might be too soon for another tutorial? Might still give it a try - discuss on Slack!

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Ian, Philip -- Coordinate on the external contract work (pushed to next week)
- [ ] Assignee -- Action item


## 31 Jan

Moderator: Isaiah

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Mateusz
* Isaiah
* Timo
* Ian
* Bryan
* Demetris
* Philipp
* Pavithra

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Revisit the docs build issue on windows
    - Bryan: leave the issue open

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- finalizing work on "floating" UIs (PR #13538)
- started working on serialization regressions (PR #13677)
- working on the multi-toolbar PR

#### NUMFocus SDG (Isaiah)

- First workshop was held in Port-Harcourt on 27th and 28th Jan
- The workshop was divided into two sections:
    - First part was a tutorial on Bokeh
    - Second part was an introduction to Open Source contributions
- Unexpected challenge was time. I exceeded the allotted time on both days.
- Next workshop will be in Uyo on Feb 10th. Preparations are well underway.

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 3.3.4 was released

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* External contracting work (Ian)
    * Company wanting to use Bokeh for Oceanography dataviz
    * Ian is interested
    * Mateusz can help
    * Philipp - Holoviz team is also interested because it's a good fit
    * Ian will request more information, Ian & Philipp will coordinate next steps
    * One requirement - people based in the EU, Isaiah is interested in observing (Observing is tricky, but need to verify re legal forms)
    * Let's also take the opportunities to create showcases (if available)

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Ian, Philipp - Coordinate on the paid contract work


## 24-Jan

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Isaiah

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Philip
* Mateusz
* Isaiah
* Bryan
* Ian
* Timo
* Pavithra
* Victoria

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Create issues / discussions for CSS variables after 3.4 release
- [ ] Plan for end of January, 2024 to revisit the docs build issue on windows (Moved to next week, 31st Jan).

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- finalizing work on "floating" UIs
- finalized work on custom units of measurement for `ScaleBar` (PR #13625)
- finalized fixes to `Range.{min,max}_interval` handling (PR #13561)
  - adds support for `{min,max}_{width,height}` constraints to `BoxAnnotation`

#### Philipp

- Pushed some PRs to handle issues around session clean-up

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

#### Bryan
- 3.3.4 release very soon
    - Figure out announcements schedule with Victoria

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

#### Timo
- Some issues around the doc build will be resolved after 3.3.4 release

#### Isaiah
- Not many `good first issues` for new contributors
    - Bryan - Many issues in the repo are TS isues and many new contributors are Python devs so it will be difficult to find good first issues for new contributors
    - Mateusz - We have to find some issues which are actually good first issues to avoid confusion and difficulties for new contributors
    - Timo - We have a `good first issue` template we can revisit
        - Bryan has found it and dropped it in the chats
    - Timo - We can create some from our docs
    - Ian - We can also make some comments about the pre-requisites for a new contributor to a `good first issue` such as machine type (Windows etc)

#### Timo
- Timeline for 3.4 release?
    - Mateusz - We can start a blog post or discussion on github for it
    - Bryan - We can start with a timeline to schedule blogs and release notes for what is new in the release

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Q1 blog post for end of March
    - Bryan - We can start the post in February to avoid rush
- [ ] Discussion for developing `good first issues`


## 17-Jan

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Mateusz
* Isaiah
* Philipp
* Ian
* Pavithra
* Timo

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

N/A

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Create issues / discussions for CSS variables after 3.4 release
    - we have a new tag for these issues
    - move to next week
- [ ] Plan for end of January, 2024 to revisit the docs build issue on windows.

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- finalizing work on "floating" UIs (PR #13538)
- working on improved toolbar support (PR #13571)
- finalized CSS `font-size` PR from Marc (PR #13282)
- finalized work on customizable units of measurement (PR #13625)
- finalized work on `{min,max}_interval` support (PR #13561)
- work in progress on formatter support in `ValueRef` (PR #13650)

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Ananconda is hiring a JS/TS developer to work on Bokeh (details to come soon)

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* next release
    * dev/rc release this week will be nice
    * need to fix serialization of dicts before dev/rc
    * properly plan next week

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item


## 10-Jan

Moderator: Isaiah

Notetaker: Timo

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Bryan
* Ian
* Philipp
* Mateusz
* Demetris
* Timo
* Pavithra

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Plan for end of January, 2024 to revisit the docs build issue on windows.


### 4. Updates

*Active contributors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- released bokeh 3.3.3 (PR #13624)
- resolved failing minimal-deps job in CI (PR #13635)
- added support for string nodes to `StaticLayoutProvider` (PR #13618) (SDG)
- removed dict serialization hacks and generalized dict support in bokehjs (PR #13618) (SDG)
- added support for outline shapes to `Text`-like glyphs (PR #13620) (SDG)
- added support for glyph decorations to line glyphs (PR #13619) (SDG)
- work in progress on adding edge labels to graphs (PR TODO) (SDG)
- work in progress on shape detection when spanning lines between glyphs (PR TODO) (SDG)
- allowed to easily define custom units of measurement in `ScaleBar` (PR #13625) (CZI)
- finalizing fixes to `{min,max}_interval` handling (PR #13561) (CZI)
- work in progress on "floating" UIs (PR #13538)
- early work in progress on CSS theming canvas visuals (PR TODO)
- dropped Python 3.9 support and modernized the codebase (PR #13634)
- made all generated HTML elements to use unique and CSS safe IDs (PR #13636)
- used `ruff` to ban top-level `typing_extensions` imports (PR #13633)
- updated licensing information to 2024 (PR #13630)

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

- Bryan: Ballpark idea of 3.4 release time frame?
- Philipp: second that, talked about rough themes for 3.4 and 3.5 releases, splitting up PRs.
    - 3.4: Focus on floating UI PR (Mateusz: sometime early february would be ideal)
    - 3.5: Focus CSS variables, unify/clean up of widgets (CSS would be breaking change) - Part of the reasoning: we expose at set of variables to define style, then could reimplement different widget that uses those. 
    - Bryan: Are we targeting Bokeh CSS or the widget'S CSS? 
    - Mateusz: Yes, provide consistent API for this (defined CSS variables with sematntics, etc) - that is why redesigning the widgets - to be consistent. 
    - Philipp: Variables will finally provide a guaranteed API. Once 3.4 is out, we should formalize this as issues/discussions in the repo.


### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Create issues / discussions for CSS variables (3.5)

---

<details>
    <summary>Template</summary>

## DD MMM

Moderator: ...

Notetaker: ...

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* 

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

</details>
