# Q4 2024 / Bokeh Weekly Sync âœ¨

**Welcome!**

:computer: We meet here: meet.google.com/dtm-iycn-ctx

:clock8: Every Wednesday, at 8am Pacific Time

to chat about everything Bokeh!

## Guidelines

- This meeting is covered by [Bokeh â€™s Code of Conduct](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/blob/branch-3.1/docs/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
- If you wish to participate in a discussion, please use Google Meet's "Raise hands ðŸ™‹" feature, and wait for the moderator to call on you.
- These notes are [synced with GitHub](https://github.com/bokeh/pm/blob/master/minutes/weekly/YYYY-MM.md) after the meeting, where you can find past meeting notes.

## TOC

* [13-Nov](#13-Nov)
* [06-Nov](#06-Nov)
* [30-Oct](#30-Oct)
* [23-Oct](#23-Oct)
* [16-Oct](#16-Oct)
* [09-Oct](#09-Oct)
* [02-Oct](#02-Oct)

## 13 Nov

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Timo
* Philipp
* Mateusz
* Simon
* Ian
* Bryan
* Pavithra
* Gabriel

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- finalized bokeh 3.6.1 release (PR #14096)
- started work on bokeh 3.6.2 release (PR #14155)
- fixed a regression in `ScaleBar` positioning (PR #14154)
- reduced `lock-threads` workflow to once per week (PR #14147)
- finalized improvements to bokehjs' test framework (PR #14131)
- improvement to `Tooltip` positioning (PR #14145)
  - uses the new `popover` DOM API when available
  - fixes `Tooltip` support in full-screen mode
- added support for stateful action tools (PR #14143)
  - includes improvements to `FullscreenTool` and `ExamineTool`
  - allows `CustomAction` tools to maintain state
- support for automatically activating wheelzoomtool
- continued work on DOM support in axes
- continued work on key bindings manager
- continued work on status bar for plots
- experimental support for draggable `Legend`
  - to be generalized to other legends and toolbars, etc.
- working on a plan for CSS-related theming work for CZI

#### CZI R5

- Gabriel's updates:
    - Currently: working on adding test for pull request, [Show grab/grabbing cursor when moving box selection #14151](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/14151)
    - Next up: looking into [WebKit bugs associated with dual DOM/canvas rendering feature #14134](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/14134)


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* SDG results are delayed

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* NF fundraising meeting. Ian to follow up.

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Ian - to setup a meeting with NF about fundraising

## 06 Nov

Moderator: Ian

Notetaker: Isaiah

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Gabriel
* Philipp
* Ian
* Simon
* Mateusz

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- started working on DOM labels on axes
- work in progress on key bindings manager
- work in progress on status bar for plots
- experimenting with `popover` API in tooltips

#### CZI R5 ()

- Gabriel's update: 
    - Working on changing the cursor when dragging the range tool ([issue #13027](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/13027))
    - Goals for next week: 
        - Submit PR for #13027
        - Look into [issue #14134 Place to track WebKit bugs with PR #14028 ](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/14134)


#### TBD


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Ian: request from Wolfgang of TARDIS project for an update from Mateusz on the Bokeh/TARDIS SDG.
    * Mateusz - A WIP. Will be completed soon
* Simon: Plan to release 3.6.2??
    * Mateusz - Some trivial test failures that needs to be resolved before release.
* Ian - NumFocus email feedback. Will speak to Bryan about fixing a meeting to discuss it.

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

## 30 Oct

Moderator: Isaiah

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Philipp
* Mateusz
* Simon
* Isaiah
* Pavithra
* Gabriel

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

NA

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

NA

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- finished work on DOM support in `Legend` annotation (PR [#14028](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/14028))
- added support for focus management and auto-activation of `WheelZoomTool` (PR #14112)
- added support for `CrosshairTool` and `HoverTool` to trigger from axes (PR #14124)
- temporarily disabled bokehjs testing in CI on Windows and OSX (PR #14125)
- fixed `lock-threads` workflow to not fail attempting to close discussions (PR #14128)
- work in progress on key binding manager (PR next week)
- experimented with DOM `popover` and `dialog` APIs
  - not fully useful yet without new `anchor` positioning API

#### CZI R5 ()

- Gabriel's updates:
    - No updates. Have been sick.
    - Goals for this week: same as last week.

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

NA 

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* (Gabriel) Issues with testing the dual-rendering PR - reach out to Mateusz async 

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

NA

## 23 Oct

Moderator: Pavithra

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Gabriel / he/him/ @gabalafou
* Chiemezuo
* Mateusz
* Ian
* Pavithra
* Timo

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

NA

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] (Mateusz) Issues for branch versioned CDN channel and browser testing
    - will do this week

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- finalizing work on dual canvas/CSS rendering of `Legends` (PR #14028)
- added support for focus management to plots (PR #14112)
  - allows for automatic activation and deactivation of `WheelZoomTool`
  - adds initial support for key binding management
- allowed to configure `touch-action` based on active tools (PR #14109)
  - fixes a bug in handling browser default touch actions on touch devices
- improved cursor managment for tools in UI events (PR #14106)
  - specifically improved `PanTool`'s cursor and state management
- added a GitHub workflow for testing bokehjs with beta releases of Chromium (PR #14105)
  - workflow can be triggered manually or it runs on schedule 2 hours before this meeting
- improved robustness of bokeh's unit tests in CI with `--last-failed` (PR #14103)
  - pretty much no more test related spurious failures
  - other less common failures can still occur (network connectivity for conda, etc.)

#### CZI R5

- Gabriel's updates
    - Reminder: some of the CZI grant-related work is managed in a dedicated repo, [czi-bokeh-mgmt](https://github.com/Quansight-Labs/czi-bokeh-mgmt). Some of the links in my update go to issues in that repo.
    - Had chat earlier today with Mateusz
        - Went through all GitHub issues labeled [grant: CZI R6](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues?q=sort:updated-desc+is:issue+is:open+label:%22grant:+CZI+R6%22).
        - Discussed how to [make Bokeh translatable](https://github.com/Quansight-Labs/czi-bokeh-mgmt/issues/10)
        - Discussed how to address [modernise and simplify Bokeh's theming system and its accessibility](https://github.com/Quansight-Labs/czi-bokeh-mgmt/issues/2)
            - Next step: Mateusz to outline preliminary considerations. These will serve as input for the first draft of a work plan.
    - Next week goals:
        - Find and close 1 issue, such as [#13027](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/13027) or [#6662](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/6662)
        - Provide feedback on the [dual canvas and DOM rendering](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/14028) pull request. Also test it with Safari.


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

NA

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Add Gabriel to bokeh/maintainers GH team to allow him to review PRs in his area of expertese (UI/mobile) - Yes
* gentle bump - it's been a month since the last activity on the [discussion about adding Axe-core to Bokeh tests / CI](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/discussions/14057)
    * the draft PR needs a little more work
    * the axe-core specific portion may not be worth including in the codebase for now
    * can make it an optional, manual + on a schedule, workflow
    * precedent to include work instead of stalling discussion, we can remove it later if needed

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

## 16 Oct

Moderator: Mateusz

Notetaker: Bryan

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Philipp
* Mateusz
* Bryan

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- dealing with regression in Chromium 130 (PR #14093)
- renamed `scripts:watch` task to `watch` (PR #14094)
- fixed equality implementation in defaults' tests (PR #14102)
- attempted to cheaply improve robustness of bokeh's unit tests in CI (PR #14103)

#### CZI R5

- Gabriel's update: Still familiarizing myself with Bokeh. I worked through the [Bokeh tutorial](https://github.com/bokeh/tutorial) this week and am also working through the [Panel tutorials](https://panel.holoviz.org/tutorials/index.html).

#### TBD


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Chrome 130 scare and future browser testing strategy

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] (Mateusz) Issues for branch versioned CDN channel and browser testing

## 09 Oct

Moderator: Bryan

Notetaker: Isaiah

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Philipp
* Bryan
* Mateusz
* Isaiah

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

#### CZI R5 ()

#### TBD


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Bryan - Open PR on GH (#14090) to look at
    * Enable auto box-zoom by default

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [x] Isaiah -- Post on discourse about the new release

## 02 Oct

Moderator: Isaiah

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Gabriel
* Simon
* Pavithra
* Timo

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

NA

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [x] Mateusz - RC today, 3.6 release later this week (Milestone also needs to be cleaned up)

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*


#### CZI R6 (Pavithra)

* No major updates, the team is unavailable next week and will continue the week after


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

NA

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Discourse spam - Bryan set up https://meta.discourse.org/t/discourse-akismet/109337, which has helped.

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

NA


---

<details>
<summary>Template</summary>
    

## DD MMM

Moderator: ...

Notetaker: ...

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* 

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

#### CZI R5 ()

#### TBD


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item


</details>