# Q2 2024 / Bokeh Weekly Sync

**Welcome!**

:computer: We meet here: meet.google.com/dtm-iycn-ctx

:clock8: Every Wednesday, at 8am Pacific Time

to chat about everything Bokeh!

## Guidelines

- This meeting is covered by [Bokeh â€™s Code of Conduct](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/blob/branch-3.1/docs/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
- If you wish to participate in a discussion, please use Google Meet's "Raise hands :hand: " feature, and wait for the moderator to call on you.
- These notes are [synced with GitHub](https://github.com/bokeh/pm/blob/master/minutes/weekly/YYYY-MM.md) after the meeting, where you can find past meeting notes.


## TOC

* [26-Jun](#26-Jun)
* [19-Jun](#19-Jun)
* [12-Jun](#12-Jun)
* [05-Jun](#05-Jun)
* [29-May](#29-May)
* [22-May](#22-May)
* [15-May](#15-May)
* [08-May](#08-May)
* [01-May](#01-May)
* [24-Apr](#24-Apr)
* [17-Apr](#17-Apr)
* [10-Apr](#10-Apr)
* [03-Apr](#03-Apr)


## 26 Jun

Moderator: Pavithra

Notetaker: Timo

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Simon
* Bryan
* Pavithra
* Demetris
* Timo


### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*


### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [x] Create an Issue regarding bokeh docs not showing up on some search engines (DuckDuckGo, others?)

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

* Pavithra: Playwright visual testing portion of grant-funded work scheduled to start in two weeks (to be carried out by an intern who is a frontent developer)

* Philipp
    - RC1 released
    - Mateusz is workin on a fix for image glyph regression (performance issue)
    - Potentially work on improved benchmarking to catch issues like this more quickly in the future


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* NumFOCUS Project Summit
    * Sep 5-7; Cambridge, MA, USA
    * 2 reps from each sponsored project

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Philipp: 3.5-specific blog post? No need to block the release to wait for the blog post!
* Bryan: 
    * Plausible analytics downgraded now that some issues are fixed that caused inaccurately high volume
    * AWS accounts need to have MFA, add Pavithra as AWS admin

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*



## 19 Jun

Moderator: Bryan

Notetaker: Isaiah

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Simon
* Bryan
* Demetris
* Pavithra
* Timo

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*


### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [x] Bryan, Timo, Pavithra - meet to discuss scipy tutorial updates
    - [x] Next after this meeting

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

* finalizing PRs for bokeh 3.5
    * Simon - One PR still open before rc
    * Bryan - Hopefully release by next week
* vacation

#### Demetris

* Attended CZI summit in Boston. Represented Bokeh and Anaconda. Presented CZI work at the summit.
    * Timo - Any of the materials we can use in the scipy conference?
        * WIP material - Mostly workflow notebooks used

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Demetris - Is there a timeline for 3.6 release?
    * Bryan - No set timeline for major releases but around four per year.
    * Demetris - Ideas to include could be Scalebars

* Simon - Bokeh docs doesn't show up on DuckDuckGo
    * Bryan - May need to create a tracking Issue to investigate

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [x] Create an Issue regarding bokeh docs not showing up on some search engines (DuckDuckGo, others?)

## 12 Jun

Moderator: Isaiah

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Philipp
* Timo
* Simon
* Bryan
* Victoria
* Pavithra
* Mateusz

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

N/A

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*


### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

* Finishing PRs for 3.5 & 3.4.2

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* (Bryan) Release status
    * 2 releases - 3.5, 3.4.2
    * 3.4.2 - mostly ready, couple of fixes left
    * 3.5 also ready, 2 PRs remaining -- RC by the end of the week
    * Write a combined blog post
* (Victoria) Working on website updates

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* SciPy tutorial - Need to update the material
    * Week of 8th July


### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Bryan, Timo, Pavithra - meet to discuss scipy tut updates



## 05 Jun

Moderator: Pavithra

Notetaker: Timo

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Mateusz
* Isaiah
* Simon
* Timo
* Philipp
* Pavithra

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

*

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [x] Philipp -- Create GH discussion for updating repo rights for contributors
- [x] Philipp -- Investigate permissions options for GitHub repo and set up vote for core team about "Maintainers" group

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

* added support for `Legend` item click event (PR #13922)
  - also adds `Legend.on_click()` and `Legend.js_on_click()`
* finalized PRs for 3.5 release, e.g.:
  - hit testing support for wheel zoom
  - resize and drag handles for box annotation
  - RC hopefully by the end of this week
* PR about fixing regressions in bokehjs API (related to `core/dom`) (PR #13920)
* finalized and merged support for server-sent events (PR #13890)
* working on tool grouping support (issue #5497)

#### Simon

* Testing 3.5 on Panel

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

*

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item



## 29 May

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Isaiah

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Pavithra
* Mateusz
* Victoria
* Isaiah
* Timo

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* Simon Hansen

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Philipp -- Create GH discussion for updating repo rights for contributors
- [ ] (Philipp) -- Investigate permissions options for GitHub repo and set up vote for core team about "Maintainers" group
- [x] Victoria -- To announce Scipy conference on our social media channels

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- implemented `"toggle"` selection mode to fix `TapTool`'s behavior (PR #13918)
- fixed stacking of floating UI elements (especially dialogs) (PR #13916)
- added support for resize/drag handles to `BoxAnnotation` (PR #13906)
- fixed initial rendering of `Tooltip` (when no content or otherwise invalid) (PR #13909)
- follow up fixes to positioning of renderers' DOM elements on the canvas (PR #13908)
- finalizing a dozen or so PRs for bokeh 3.5

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Timo - Timeline for 3.5rc?
    * Mateusz - Some PRs requiring testing and reviewing. Probably next week at the latest.

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

## 22 May

Moderator: Isaiah

Notetaker: Timo

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Timo
* Mateusz
* Isaiah

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Philipp -- Create GH discussion for updating repo rights for contributors
- [ ] (Philipp) -- Investigate permissions options for GitHub repo and set up vote for core team about "Maintainers" group
- [ ] Victoria -- To announce Scipy conference on our social media channels

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- added support for resize and drag handles to `BoxAnnotation` (PR #13906)
- finalized work on "selection" gesture support in `RangeTool` (PR #13646)
- started experiments with generating `*.pyi` files for `bokeh.models` (PR #13900)
- Find better way to handle default mode (TapTool)


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 3.5rc is on target for early next week!
* Regarding expanions of the group of people who can approve PRs (without being Core members): right now, additional people provide reviews (Simon), and Philipp does the merging

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Philipp -- Create GH discussion for updating repo rights for contributors
- [ ] (Philipp) -- Investigate permissions options for GitHub repo and set up vote for core team about "Maintainers" group
- [ ] Victoria -- To announce Scipy conference on our social media channels


## 15 May

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Isaiah

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Victoria
* Timo
* Demetris
* Philipp
* Bryan

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [x] (Isaiah) Update contributors docs to mention shallow clone

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- Some updates on the server side for Bokeh
- Some open PRs to finish
    - Philipp: Any timeline for 3.5?
    - Mateusz: Some regressions to resolve before this is done. At least a week from now for a rc release?
    - Bryan: 3.4.2 release? To resolve some TapTool issues. Can be done by anyone with AWS access.
- Generated a new Anaconda token (OnePassword, GH repo secrets)

#### NumFOCUS SDG (Isaiah)

- Submitted final report on Workshop to Arliss/NumFOCUS (13th May)

#### Demetris

- Will attend a CZI summit soon. Will appreciate any info to share in the summit.
    - Bryan: Pavithra may have some updates to share.

#### Philipp

- Bokeh FastAPI is moving along well. It is working well currently. Will move from private to public repo soon.

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Bryan - Scipy tutorial is officially up. What to do about the tutorial in terms of new things to add or swap etc.
    - Will get together with Timo and Pavithra to figure it out when he's back early June.



### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Philipp -- Create GH discussion for updating repo rights for contributors
- [ ] (Philipp) -- Investigate permissions options for GitHub repo and set up vote for core team about "Maintainers" group
- [ ] Victoria -- To announce Scipy conference on our social media channels

## 08 May

Moderator: Isaiah

Notetaker: Timo

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Philipp
* Bryan
* Mateusz
* Pavithra
* Timo 

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] (Philipp) Investigate permissions options for GitHub repo and set up vote for core team about "Maintainers" group
- [ ] (Isaiah) Update contributors docs to mention shallow clone

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- finalized and merged CSS-based canvas styling (PR #13828)
- generalized `bbox` handling in UI views (PR #13863)
  - simplified `View.serializable_state()` (taking advantage of `View.children()`)
  - added more entries to (especially glyph renderers) to `*.blf` files
- redesigned `CartesianFrame` as a model/view (internal for now) (PR #13862)
- started fixing initialization issues of `HasProps` instances in bokehjs (PR #13872)
- finalizing work on robustification of `View.has_finished()` logic (PR #13801)
- finalizing work on replacing data annotations with glyphs (PR #13344)
- replaced `PlotView.renderer_view()` with generic `ViewQuery` (PR #13877)
- working on multiple CZI-related tasks

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Bryan: SciPy Tutorial on July 8th!
    * Bryan to let Arliss know 
    * Share on Discourse and other socials
    * https://cfp.scipy.org/2024/talk/JRLMLD/


### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Bryan: Bokeh sampledata PR will be ready soon (separate package currently only installable with pip)
* Bryan: GH discussion started on UX improvements in IDEs (signatures)
* Bryan will be out for about three weeks starting the 20th
* Isaiah: Additional moderators/notetakers?


### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] (Philipp) Investigate permissions options for GitHub repo and set up vote for core team about "Maintainers" group
- [ ] (Isaiah) Update contributors docs to mention shallow clone
- [ ] (Bryan) update calendar invite for weekly meeting


## 01 May

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Timo
* Isaiah
* Mateusz
* Pavithra

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

N/A

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

N/A

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- Completing work on CSS-based theming
- Added support for RageSelection to Range tool
- Fixing CI (inc. breaking change in NodeJS patch release) and windows issues

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Announce the SciPy tutorial - open question around which social platform shall we prefer moving forward

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Improve new contributors' workflow
    * Tag more good first issues
    * More docs/instructions?
    * We'll need to provide context and solutions in issues for GFIs, several current issues need more exploration
    * GFI template: https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/wiki/Good-first-issue-template
    * We also need TypeScript devs, this has been a hurdle in the past
    * Potentially look into a semi-formal initiative to recruits and suport new contributors

* Is there a way to make the dev env setup (esp. git clone) robust to internet flakiness - https://bokeh-dev.slack.com/archives/C011EMBKED7/p1714577298295879
    * The docker image could help, but not actively maintianed here
    * Suggest shallow clone instead of a compelte clone, we can note this in the docs
    * Codespaces could also be an option

* Discussion about keeping/removing pandas as a dependency on GitHub

### 7. Actions

- [ ] (Isaiah) Update contributors docs to mention shallow clone

## 24 Apr

Moderator: Pavithra

Notetaker: Isaiah

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Pavithra
* Philipp
* Timo
* Demetris
* Mateusz
* Bryan

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Philipp -- Investigate permissions options for GitHub repo and set up vote for core team about "Maintainers" group
    - Postponed to a later date

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*



#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- close to finishing work on CSS stylesheets on the canvas (PR #13828)
- fixed regression in computation of projections in secondary glyphs (PR #13832)
- finalized work on migration of some of bokeh's examples to bokehjs (PR #13785)
  - in particular showing how to use callbacks and ndarrays (for image glyphs)
- working on various improvements to `RangeTool` (and annotations) for CZI
- continued work on other CSS-related PRs and tasks

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

#### Pavithra
- SciPy tutorial was accepted

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

- Bryan - Any timeline for 3.5 release?
    - Mateusz - A lot of work TBD on CSS styling
- Philipp 
    - Moving bokeh-fastapi to the bokeh org was :heavy_check_mark: by team
    - Philip Meier at Quansight will help maintain the project

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item



## 17 Apr

Moderator: Isaiah

Notetaker: Timo

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Bryan
* Demetris
* Pavithra
* Timo
* Mateusz
* Philipp

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [x] Discuss PR reviews & approvals

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- added support for CSS-based theming on the canvas (PR #13828)
  - adds DOM hierarchy to the canvas and its renderers (allows styling with CSS, unifying API between DOM and canvas worlds. also opens up options for a11y, ARIA, etc)
- added support for wheel zoom of renderers under the cursor (PR #13826)
- fixed support for `{min,max}_interval` in `DataRange1d` (PR #13819)
- released bokeh 3.4.1
- finalizing work on multiple existing PRs
- fixed serialization bug in `jupyter_bokeh` (PR #202)
  - will release 4.0.2 later today

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Discuss PR reviews & approvals: While Bryan is out, how to manage reviews? 
    * PR: Add an intermediate group with review permission (for Simon and others) to help with reviews (between "dev" and "core")
    * MP: Start with a group, that could also include more people from the dev group. Then "graduate" to core
    * PR: To look into permissions settings on GitHub
    * BV: Adding people to that review group would be by vote from the core team
    * Suggestions for naming this group: maintainers
* Bryan: Discussion came up on Discourse. Potential regression with tap tool, behaves like Shift+tab all the time. PR: Noticed that too - potentially a change of behavior? Bryan: Will make an issue to discuss this. MP: will investigate

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Philipp -- Investigate permissions options for GitHub repo and set up vote for core team about "Maintainers" group


## 10 Apr

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Philipp
* Demetris
* Mateusz
* Timo
* Pavithra

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [x] Philipp -- Convert Bokeh demo site to pyodide
    - Posted on the docs Slack channel
    - Some downstream work in Pyodide coming from this
    - Loading indicator exists, needs patching (CSS) to work
    - Next step is to publish, deplopy w/ GH CI action, and update various links

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- bokeh 3.4.1 release (PR #13816)
- robustified and simplified `View.has_finished()` logic (PR #13801)
- added support for key modifiers and auto-activation of wheel tools (PR #13815)
- added support for `BoxAnnotation.inverted` (PR #13810)
- fixed updating of `LayoutDOM.children` and similar properties (PR #13807)
- fixed updating of `InputWidget.{title,description}` properties (PR #13805)
- fixed configuration of secondary glyphs in `GraphRenderer` (RP #13808)
- updated bokehjs' dependencies and cleared dependabot's alerts (PR #13802)
- finalizing work on replacement of data annotations with glyphs (PR #)
- completing sliders redesign and canvas theming css variable support

#### Timo

- Docs build on Windows works now

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* PR reviews and approvals
    * Bryan will be taking a vacation in mid-May, we'll need suport for code reviews during that time
    * Onboard someone from the Holoviz team to help - Simon?
    * Potentials: Update priviledges for bokeh/dev, add a new maintainers team, etc.

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Discuss PR reviews & approvals next week


## 03 Apr

Moderator: Pavithra

Notetaker: Isaiah

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Philipp
* Bryan
* Timo
* Mateusz
* Pavithra

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- working on unified styling of UI elements and canvas renderers (issue #12759)
- finalizing work on new slider widgets (PR #13551)
- finalizing work on replacing data annotations with glyphs (PR #13344)
- working on more examples in bokehjs (PR #13785)

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

#### Pavithra 
- CZI EOSS-6 Accessibility-focused grant. Not documenting details yet.

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Bryan - Timo can take a look at Mosc's suggested change in the  Windows rebuild issue PR.
    * WIP in the ongoing PR: https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/13776
* Phillip - 3.5 release timeline?
    * Mateusz - There is a 3.4.1 milestone open for quick release before the 3.5 big changes release
        * To include: WebGL antialiasing PR and layout changes

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Philipp -- Convert Bokeh demo site to pyodide (Pending)

<hr>

<details>
<summary> Template: </summary>

   
## DD MMM

Moderator: ...

Notetaker: ...

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* 

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)


#### TBD


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

</details>