# Q3 2024 / Bokeh Weekly Sync

**Welcome!**

:computer: We meet here: meet.google.com/dtm-iycn-ctx

:clock8: Every Wednesday, at 8am Pacific Time

to chat about everything Bokeh!

## Guidelines

- This meeting is covered by [Bokeh â€™s Code of Conduct](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/blob/branch-3.1/docs/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
- If you wish to participate in a discussion, please use Google Meet's "Raise hands :hand: " feature, and wait for the moderator to call on you.
- These notes are [synced with GitHub](https://github.com/bokeh/pm/blob/master/minutes/weekly/YYYY-MM.md) after the meeting, where you can find past meeting notes.


## TOC

* [21-Aug](#21-Aug)
* [14-Aug](#14-Aug)
* [07-Aug](#07-Aug)
* [31-Jul](#31-Jul)
* [24-Jul](#24-Jul)
* [17-Jul](#17-Jul)
* [10-Jul](#10-Jul)
* [03-Jul](#03-Jul)

## 21 Aug

Moderator: Pavithra

Notetaker: Isaiah

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* 

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)


#### TBD


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

## 14 Aug

Moderator: Isaiah

Notetaker: Timo

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Simon
* Philipp
* Demetris
* Chiemezuo
* Mateusz
* Pavithra
* Timo

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] NA

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

* Bokeh dev session (BokehJS development and testing, also model/property design), another one to come next week
* Continuing work on exposing more elements for renderers on the canvas (and redesigning some components such as legends to be dual renedering models, to allow them to use CSS layouts and DOM elements for rendering and mirror that on the canvas)
* Finishing improvements to scale bar positioning and sizing
* Improvements to templates
* Continuing work on improvements of validations of CSS colors

#### A11y grant

* Frank has started work on the inital audit: https://github.com/Quansight-Labs/bokeh-a11y-audit (updates will be documented in this repo)

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Blog post for new release was published: https://blog.bokeh.org/introducing-bokeh-3-5-90aaa24e79e8
* NUmFOCUS Small Development Grant is open (Deadline: August 30, 2024)

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* NA

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] NA

## 07 Aug

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Philipp
* Demetris
* Timo
* Mateusz
* Bryan
* Simon
* Chiemezuo
* Pavithra

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

N/A

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [x] Mateusz/Bryan/Victoria -- 3.5 release blog post
    - Ready to post

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- Sliders
- Date annotations
- Improvements to HoverTool tempating
- Experimental PR for validating CSS colours
- Fixed bug with Patches & Ranges (##14013)

#### A11y Grant

- Knowledge share sessions re end-to-end BokehJS bug fix. Another session planned for next week same time, will also cover internals of BokehJS
- Setting up a dashboard with basic plots and elements to start audit

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Blog post upcomming
* NumFOCUS Summit in Sept
    * Pavithra will go
    * let us know if you're interested in attending

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

N/A

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

N/A

## 31 Jul

Moderator: Isaiah

Notetaker: Timo

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Philipp
* Victoria
* Gabriel
* Mateusz
* Simon
* Chiemezuo
* Demetris
* Timo

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Mateusz/Bryan/Victoria -- 3.5 release blog post
    - In progress

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- improvements to `ScaleBar` positioning (PR #14005)
- fixed handling of `maintain_focus=False` when zooming (PR #14000)
- Sliders 
- Other existing PRs
- Discussion about stacking / pipelining formatters in tooltips (generate HTML content from CustomJS formatters)
- BokehJS development sessions

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Gabriel: Might do one more session, but no date set (cover workflow of making changes to BokehJS, maybe also exploration of BokehJS/lib files)
    * Mateusz: Probably before or after the next weekly call

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* -

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Mateusz/Bryan/Victoria -- 3.5 release blog post

## 24 Jul

Moderator: Isaiah

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Philipp
* Isaiah
* Ben
* Isaiah
* Chiemezuo
* Mateusz
* Bryan
* Timo
* Pavithra
* Gabriel
* Cyprian

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* Cyprian - JS developer located in Nigeria, looking to contribute

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [x] Mateusz - Issue for github action that creates a dev branch & tag
- [ ] Mateusz/Bryan/Victoria -- 3.5 release blog post
    - move to next week

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- bokeh 3.4.3 and 3.5.1 releases (PR #13953, PR #13982)
- fixes to range management
- scalebar, sliderwidget updates
- removing date annotations

#### Bryan

- PR #13992, removes docker and old selenium tests
- 2 CustomJS (+docs) PRs in review


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

N/A

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Backport fixes to 3.4.3 which support Python 3.9
    *  OK to support if they are quick fixes

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

N/A

## 17 Jul

Moderator: Pavithra

Notetaker: Isaiah

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Mateusz
* Pavithra
* Chiemezuo
* Isaiah
* Victoria
* Demetris
* Bryan
* Gabriel
 
### 2. New introductions! 

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* Tammy
* Ben Fhala

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Mateusz/Bryan -- Status of 3.5 release blog post
    - Bryan - There is an open Google Docs
    - Victoria - Can also help with that
- [x] Quansight/Anaconda -- Meeting about the CZI grant project
- [x] Mateusz - Issue for github action that creates a dev branch & tag (?)

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- preparing 3.4.3 and 3.5.1 patch releases
- working on bugs related to range management under zoom (`maintain_focus=False`)
- working on allowing to attach `ScaleBar` to a sub-coordinate range
- investigating issues related to streaming data
- restarted work on the redesign of `Slider` widgets (PR #13551)
- finalizing work redesign of data annotations as glyphs (PR #13344)
- fixed location of `*.d.ts` files in `package.json` (PR #13975)
- fixed support for `BOKEH_MINIFIED` env variable (PR #13974)
- made `GlyphRenderer` generic in bokehjs and removed a lot of `any` casts (PR #13977)
- fixed merging of toolbars in grid plots with just a single plot (PR #13978)
- restored support for Firefox ESR (Extended Support Release) (PR #13979)

#### Bryan

- Open PR for per-column custom comparators (PR #13973). Open to more contributions on it.

#### Scipy conference

- Went well.


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Recorded BokehJS knowledge share starting next week after the weekly sync
    * Meeting link: meet.google.com/uhx-pdwu-brx
    * Meeting notes: https://hackmd.io/@bokeh/HkAM9mxw0
    * Idea is a general intro to BokehJS
    * Pavithra will set up a reminder

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Tammy - How to get started on testing using the relevant tools?
    * Still a new process for everyone.
    * Mateusz - There is a bit of info in the [docs](https://docs.bokeh.org/en/latest/docs/dev_guide.html) concerning this. Also recommends the BokehJS session next week.
    * Gabriel - Playwright devs were the former devs of Puppeteer, so if you're familiar with Puppeteer, Playwright should be easy as well.

* Slack invite: slack-invite.bokeh.org

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Pavithra -- Set up/Update reminder for BokehJS knowledge share.

## 10 Jul

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Isaiah

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Timo
* Mateusz
* Philipp
* Gabriel
* Demetris
* Chiemezuo

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [x] Simon - Create an issue about potentially renaming dev & rc releases
    - [x] https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/13963
- [ ] Mateusz - Issue for github action that creates a dev branch & tag (?)
    - will be done this week
- [x] Mateusz - Release 3.5
    - Minor CI problem that needs to be looked at.
        - [x] Philipp - Looked at it. Involves sampledata that may need to be dropped. Resolved

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- released bokeh 3.5.0
- started preparing bokeh 3.4.3 release
- working on bugs related to range management under zoom (`maintain_focus=False`)
- working on allowing to attach `ScaleBar` to a sub-coordinate range
- fixed a bug in `may_have_refs()` in bokehjs (PR #13970)
- fixed a bug related to category indexing in `CategoricalSlider` (PR #13966)
- restarted work on the resdesign of slider widgets (PR #13551)
- issue triage and working on multiple bug-fixes

#### Timo

- Scipy tutorial went well. Thanks to DR, Pavithra, and Bryan.

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Timo - Timeline for 3.5.1 release?
    * Mateusz - None yet. A minor release

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Gabriel - Question about default dev branches after any major/minor release
    * Mateusz - We may have to schedule a meeting to discuss our branching strategies (https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/wiki/BEP-6:-Branching-Strategy)

* Gabriel - Choice of using Axe-core vs Selenium in building the test suite
    * Mateusz - We don't currently have active Selenium test inhouse. Has discussed using Playwright with Philipp. There exists a custom tool for bokehjs: https://docs.bokeh.org/en/latest/docs/dev_guide/writing_tests.html
    * Philipp - Will have meetings with others (next week) working on the CZI grant to discuss the process and toolings.
    * Timo - Will be nice to have a GH discussion opened concerning this.

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Mateusz/Bryan -- Status of 3.5 release blog post
- [x] Quansight/Anaconda -- Meeting about the CZI grant project

## 03 Jul

Moderator: Isaiah

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Timo
* Isaiah
* Bryan
* Simon
* Pavithra
* Demetris
* Gabriel
* Chiemezuo
* Mateusz

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* Gabriel - Quansight Labs, mentoring Mezuo. Currently based in Barcelona.
* Mezuo - Based in Nigeria, Quansight Labs intern, will be working on automated testing

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

N/A

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

* RC release
* Fixed one regression (details tbd)
* Working on 3.5 release, and will begin work on 3.6

#### CZI R6 - Accessibility grant

* Introduce Tania, Gabriel, Chiemezuo, and Frank
* Project management:
    * Repo: https://github.com/Quansight-Labs/czi-bokeh-mgmt/issues/7
    * Board: https://github.com/orgs/Quansight-Labs/projects/20?query=sort%3Aupdated-desc+is%3Aopen
* Internship scope: https://hackmd.io/@pavithraes/ByNbinfDC

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 3.5 release blog post
    * Bryan can work on it over the coming week, will start a doc today
    * Process - collect ideas in a google doc, publish on medium

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Simon - dev versions show up before RC alphabetically on conda. Would it be possible to call it alpha/beta?
    * bryan - not trivial, need to coordiante this on pypi, cdn, etc.
    * -1 for alpha/beta
    * overall a medium-lift
    * have a separate dev channel?
    * this is a long-term conda issue

* 3.5 release schedule
    * Today
    * scatter-glyph issue does not need to block the release -- we'll need backport this to 3.4 as well, so make this a patch release
    * When does the default branch change? Immediately after the release 

* Integration tests use Selenium
    * selenium-based tests are defunt
    * there are some custom tests
    * refactoring all the tests will be too large-scoped, we can start small with Playwright

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Simon - Create an issue about potentially renaming dev & rc releases
    - Ref: Similar issue here https://github.com/conda/conda/issues/12568
- [ ] Mateusz - Issue for github action that creates a dev branch & tag (?)
- [ ] Mateusz - Release 3.5

---

## Meeting Template

<details>
<summary> Template: </summary>

## DD MMM

Moderator: ...

Notetaker: ...

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* 

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)


#### TBD


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

</details>

