# Q2 2025 / Bokeh Weekly Sync ✨

**Welcome!**

:computer: We meet here: meet.google.com/dtm-iycn-ctx

:clock8: Every Wednesday, at 8am Pacific Time

to chat about everything Bokeh!

## Guidelines

- This meeting is covered by [Bokeh’s Code of Conduct](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/blob/branch-3.1/docs/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
- If you wish to participate in a discussion, please use Google Meet's "Raise hands :hand: " feature, and wait for the moderator to call on you.
- These notes are [synced with GitHub](https://github.com/bokeh/pm/blob/master/minutes/weekly/YYYY-MM.md) after the meeting, where you can find past meeting notes.

## Table of Contents

[TOC]

## 11 Jun

Moderator: Isaiah

Notetaker: Timo

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Bryan
* Philipp
* Mateusz
* Pavithra
* Timo
* Simon
* Gabriel

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [x]  Pavithra - Add design system to developer docs
    - was published today, so will include this week

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- finalizing work on hit filtering and other `HoverTool` improvements
- fixing a bug in serializer/deserializer related to cyclic data structure discovery
- cleaning up icon's and related CSS and mixins
- fixed support for categorical coordinates in `BoxAnnotation`
- finalizing work on support for generic layouts in side panels
- allowed redefinition of models (with a warning)
- restoring support for `min_width` and `min_height` CSS in layouts
  - recently removed to fix certain layouts, but it broke other patterns

#### CZI R6

- Gabriel
    - Provided feedback to Smera on her [designs for Bokeh widgets (Figma)](https://www.figma.com/design/3xk3QObj3XaALcHHyz8nmE/%F0%9F%93%8A-Bokeh-Design-System?node-id=278-3156&p=f&t=Q03tqK4FGyAzqGnY-0)
    - Added some tests to the [ColumnDataSource CSV/JSON PR](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/14519) and tried unsuccessfully to fix a TypeScript compile error. Still need to add JSON method.

- Pavithra, no new updates since last week. Design is mostly complete.

### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 
    
### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Published design system: https://www.figma.com/community/file/1514177232268864000/bokeh-design-system

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item


## 04 Jun

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Mateusz
* Philipp
* Bryan
* Timo
* Pavithra
* Gabriel
* Simon
* Bryan

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

NA

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ]  Pavithra - Add design system to developer docs
    - postpone, will add once it's published, so this week

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- vacation
- finalizing work on hit filtering and other new `HoverTool` features
- working on `Plot` layout improvements and `SizeBar`

#### CZI R6

- Pavithra, general updates:
    - Had the monthly sync right before this call
    - Design (Smera):
        - [Widgets interaction redesign](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/14410#issuecomment-2919586822) is ready for review
        - download data tool is wip
    - Docs updates from a plot-reader perspective
    - Frank will work on a small prototype for bokeh + data navigator

- Gabriel
    - Update on CSV export: [csv-stringify library adds 32 KB to minified BokehJS bundle](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/14506#issuecomment-2930426279). Here's the [code that adds csv-stringify](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/compare/gabalafou/cds-csv?expand=1).

### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Release timeline? Mateusz has some work in progress, so after that, no concrete timeline
    * Patch release? Soon
    * boto3-related updates, merge and test with a dev release
    
### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Moving some Sphinx extensions to internal-only space -- should not break anything (https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/14512)

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item



## 28 May

Moderator: Pavithra

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Gabriel
* Simon
* Pavithra

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

NA

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Pavithra - Add design system to developer docs
    - postpone

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### CZI R6

* Pavithra, no major updates -- design & docs tasks are in progress
* Gab, same, no major updates -- working on [CSV export](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/10567)

### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

NA

### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Re-share pycon videos from Bokeh accounts

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

NA

## 21 May

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Isaiah

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Bryan
* Gabriel
* Timo
* Simon
* Mateusz

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [x] Gabriel -- Expand out the requirements and issues for CSV support
    - https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/10567#issuecomment-2898254725

- [ ] Pavithra - Add design system to developer docs
    - postpone
- [x] Pavithra - Post about audit on bluesky (15th May)
    - Frank wrote a nice thread about the audit, reshared that. Also posted about the talk.

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- major progress on key binding management
  - still a lot to finish
- working on hit filtering in `HoverTool`
  - added inline syntax for filtering and formatting, e.g. `@{x}{filter(finite) | fixed(2)}`
- working on layouts in `Plot's` side panels
- working on `SizeBar` annotation
- working on restoring `min_width` and `min_height` in layouts

#### CZI R6

* Pavithra (async update): The talk went well!
    * [Link to slides](https://www.canva.com/design/DAGkx0Etma8/-kQKNj4FSgrB5eQhDdn0eg/edit)
    * Video should be available soon
* [name=Gabriel]
    * Just been digging into the code, thinking about CSV export

### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 
    
### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Mateusz - Out till June 1st

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

*

## 14 May

Moderator: Isaiah

Notetaker: Timo

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Bryan
* Gabriel
* Isaiah
* Mateusz
* Timo
* Philipp
* 

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Gabriel -- Expand out the requirements and issues for CSV support
  - Pushing this to next week
- [x] Pavithra -- Create an issue about transitioning to issue-types
    - https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/14488
- [x] Mateusz -- 3.7.3 release
- [ ] Pavithra - Add design system to developer docs
    - postpone
- [ ] Pavithra - Post about audit on bluesky (15th May)
    - Ready to post it tomorrow

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- added support for filters, sorting and limits to `HoverTool` (PR #14484)
  - will add support for inline "pipe" syntax for formatters and filters
- added support for generic layouts to `Plot`'s side and center panels (PR #14487)
  - will also add support for layouts of annotations (e.g. `Legend`)
  - will allow to simplify `ColorBar`'s  implementation
  - basis for `SizeBar` component
- finalizing work on key binding management (PR #14172)
- released bokeh 3.7.3
  - focuses on `Legend` related regressions
  - updated anaconda.org token (also in the vault)

#### CZI R6

- Pavithra (async)
    - PyCon US talk this week
    - No other updates
- [name=Gabriel]
  - Ready for review: [Bring in color system #14467](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/14467)

### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 
    
### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Bluesky / Discord posts about release coming soon

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Gabriel -- Expand out the requirements and issues for CSV support
- [ ] Pavithra - Add design system to developer docs
- [ ] Pavithra - Post about audit on bluesky (15th May)


## 07 May

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Mateusz
* Philipp
* Gabriel
* Pavithra
* Timo

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

NA

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Gabriel -- Expand out the requirements and issues for CSV support
    - postpone
- [ ] Pavithra -- Create an issue about transitioning to issue-types
    - postpone
- [ ] Mateusz -- 3.7.3 release
    - Final PR was completed today, needs re-review, will cut the release after

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- finalized fixes to `Legend` positioning (PR #14457)
- continued work on layouts in side and center panels (depends #14457) (for `SizeBar`)
- started working on filtering in `HoverTool` (issue #9087)
  - will add a `CustomJSFilter` and `@{field | filter()}` syntax
  - this will help with resolving #13997, which requires the pipe syntax
  - `Filter` suffix is already used, so alternative naming convention is needed
- fixed corner cases in datetime formatting (PR #14473)
- working on key binding support (should be finished by next week)
- investigating all layout issues related to grids/grid plots

#### CZI R6

- Pavithra, general updates:
    - Working on PyCon US talk w/ Frank
    - Working on the [docs task - best practices for creating accessible viz](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/14475)
    - Design, Smera is working on the widget interactions
- Gab, no updates but:
    - Very quickly reviewed [Add support for ARIA role attribute #14341](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/14341)
    - Will get PR [Bring in color system #14467](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/14467) ready for review after this meeting
        - Question: 1-to-1 issue-to-PR rule. This started as a discussion. Should I convert the [discussion (14415)](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/discussions/14415) to an issue? Open a new issue?
        - Can convert

### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

NA
    
### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Reminder: Thursday, May 15 is Global Accessibility Awareness Day
    * Announce the audit

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Pavithra - Add design system to developer docs
- [ ] Pavithra - Post about audit on bluesky (15th May)
- [ ] Gabriel -- Expand out the requirements and issues for CSV support

## 30 Apr

Moderator: Isaiah

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Gabriel / he, him / @gabalafou
* Isaiah
* Timo
* Bryan
* Ian
* Pavithra
* Mateusz

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

NA

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] [name=Pavithra] - Create an issue about transitioning to issue-types
    - not yet
- [ ] 3.7.3 release?
    - one PR that needs amendments (re legend positioning), will be fixed today. Can release after that.

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- added support for a tool for toggling selectable text (PR #14472)
- finalizing keyboard support (PR #14172)
- completed adding suport for ARIA `role` attribute (PR #14341)
  - will continue working on other ARIA attributes on per-component basis
- finalized work on DOM `Legend` positioning fixes (PR #14457)
- improved corner cases in datatime formatter (handling not-finite numbers and non-numbers) (PR #14473)
- switched to software rendered canvas in `Image`-like glyphs (PR #14470)
  - silences warnings in JS console
  - may improve performance
- reviewing Gabriel's and Smera's work

#### CZI R6

* [name=Gab]
    * Ready to merge [CSS vars](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/14349) PR
        * will eventually be an API
        * shouldn't be a breaking PR
    * [Color system](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/14467) PR is nearly ready for review
    * I wrote up a short list of [requirements for a CSV download button](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/10567#issuecomment-2842067289) - would like to start working on this

* Pavithra
    * Talk at PyCon DE done
        * [Slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1pc8TZZJx64Tif5Qios43ofJJF0os_Qw4/view?usp=sharing), video should be shared in a couple of months
    * Another presentation, with updates, at PyCon US on 15th May -- post on socials
    * (Design) Widgets re-design is in progress

#### BokehJS standalone TypeScript library (Ian)

* Work finished:
    * PR with changes for Bokeh 4.0 https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/14431
    * Examples repo https://github.com/bokeh/bokehjs-examples
    * Possible future work on documenting API, more examples, etc

### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* [name=Gab] [CSV download tool requirements](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/10567#issuecomment-2842067289)
    * two things needed -- a tool for downloading things, ui for filtering+configuring things that a plot-user needs
    * concern about being default -- becuase it'll need to be very configurable
        * if the config options are for the plot viewer (with a full UI), it  might make sense as default 
    * a data table view of the data is a heavier lift, and a lower-lift "download" could be a quicker a11y win
    * there can be different data sources, creating more decisions for the plot creator - hence the concern about making it default
    * CDS -> CSV is a good place to start
    * Workflow: one top level issue, and sub-issues for the stages
    * Potential: API, to use with a CustomJS callback?
 
### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 3.7.3 release announcement on discourse & bluesky
* Philipp - working on a panel extension that allows users to create custom components and map it to panel (and eventually bokeh) components

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Gabriel -- Expand out the requirements and issues for CSV support

## 23 Apr

Moderator: Philipp

Notetaker: Gabriel

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Gabriel
* Philipp
* Bryan
* Mateusz
* Simon

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* No one new

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [x] Bryan - Remove old/unused milestones
- [ ] Pavithra - Create an issue about transitioning to issue-types
    - Not yet (as of 23 Apr)
- [x] Pavithra - Get approval from core team & reply to NF CoC opt in/out form
    - No update (as of 23 Apr, Pavithra is out at conference) 

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- 

#### CZI R6

- General updates:
    - Talk at PyCon DE (today!)
    - Smera is working on review+recommendation for widget interactions
    - Gab
        - Updated: https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/14349
        - Created: https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/14467

### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 3.73 release timeline and what should go in
    * Mateusz: there's one PR (something to do with legends?) and Philipp's PR and then we should be done
    * Philipp: RC in a day or two? 
    * Mateusz: Yes, hopefully
    
### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* PyCon DE talk. Yes, this was announced on Blue Sky.

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- Not an action per se, but let's release 3.73 :)


## 16 Apr

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Timo
* Bryan
* Gabriel
* Pavithra

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

NA

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Bryan - Remove old/unused milestones
    - Not yet, schedule a separate meeting w/ Mateusz
- [ ] Mateusz/Pavithra - Create an issue about transitioning to issue-types
    - Not yet
    
### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

#### CZI R6

* Pavithra (general updates)
    * Roadmap discussion, prioritization is complete, need to move to Bokeh issue tracker
    * Preparing for conference talks (will share slides for review & feedback), re-post social announcements on bluesky
    * Design: Smera is working on interactive states of widgets

* [name=Gab]
    * On my plate: bring Smera's colors into the Bokeh code base: [Proposal for a cohesive colour system for Bokeh #14415](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/discussions/14415). No progress yet, but hopefully by the end of this week.
    * If you have any pull requests you would like me to review, please send my way (via Bokeh Slack)


### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* CoC need to opt in/out form due soon

    
### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Post about upcoming talk on bluesky - done
* Looking for more ideas for bluesky posts
* Potentially add Bokeh to starter-packs
* May 15 - post about accessibility

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Pavithra - Get approval & reply to NF CoC opt in/out form

## 09 Apr

Moderator: Pavithra

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Philipp
* Mateusz
* Gabriel
* Pavithra

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

NA

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Bryan - Remove old/unused milestones
- [ ] Mateusz/Pavithra - Create an issue about transitioning to issue-types
    - [ ] Not yet

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

* continued work on sub-plots (initial PR this week)
* working towards 3.7.3 -- fixing legend related regressions
* initial explorations on react-style rending approach for BokehJS

#### CZI R6

* Gab
    * Pretty much done on my end with [CSS vars #14349](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/14349). Now will just be responding to review.
    * Next up: bringing the color palette from [#14415](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/discussions/14415) into BokehJS codebase.

* Pavithra, general updates:
    * Roadmap discussion is in progress
    * Conference talks in progress
    * Design: Smera shared the new SVG icons

### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Numfocus COC decision -- make decision async on Slack
    
### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* announce 3.7.3 early next week 

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] 


## 02 Apr

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Isaiah

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Timo
* Ian
* Gabriel
* Mateusz
* Philipp
* Isaiah
* Pavithra

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Bryan - Remove old/unused milestones
    - Next week, maybe
- [ ] Mateusz/Pavithra - Create an issue about transitioning to issue-types
    - [ ] Not yet
- [ ] Bryan -- Announce 3.7.1

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- fixed positioning of glyphs in legends (PR #144)
- working on `SizeBar` component (no PR yet)
  - extracting plot logic into `SubPlot`


#### CZI R6

- [name=Gab] 
     - Wrapping up [CSS Vars](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/14349) PR. First step towards customizing (mostly colors) UI that is NOT canvas. Does not include some third-party widgets, like nouislider, flatpickr, and slickgrid.


- [name=Pavithra]
    - No new updates since last week, roadmap & design work are in progress


### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Timo - Email from NF about code of conduct harmonization process
    * Pavithra - Discussed with Bryan: To leave the current CoC as is.
    * Still open for discussion. 
    * Will make a decision next week about who fills the form for bokeh
    
### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Mateusz - 3.7.1 and 3.7.2 patch releases. Philipp fixed a minor regression on 3.7.2

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] 

---

<details>
<summary> Template: </summary>

## DD MMM

Moderator: ...

Notetaker: ...

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* 

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

#### CZI R6 ()

#### TBD

### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 
    
### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

</details>