# Q4 2025 / Bokeh Weekly Sync ✨

**Welcome!**

:computer: We meet here: meet.google.com/dtm-iycn-ctx

:clock8: Every Wednesday, at 8am Pacific Time

to chat about everything Bokeh!

## Guidelines

- This meeting is covered by [Bokeh’s Code of Conduct](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/blob/branch-3.1/docs/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
- If you wish to participate in a discussion, please use Google Meet's "Raise hands :hand: " feature, and wait for the moderator to call on you.
- These notes are [synced with GitHub](https://github.com/bokeh/pm/blob/master/minutes/weekly/YYYY-MM.md) after the meeting, where you can find past meeting notes.

[TOC]

## 17 Dec

Moderator: Simon

Note-taker: Isaiah

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Simon
* Isaiah
* Mateusz
* Timo

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*



### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Bryan - Security checker switch to GH-native
    - [x] Postponed


### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Mateusz

* attempting to fix build issues
* almost finished with redesign of `Title` annotation (for CZI)
  - the last problem is with deferred painting during export
* finalizing redesign of axes (for CZI)
* Figuring out Theming to finish Daniel's work

#### Daniel (Async)

* Continued work on new theme
* Added support for CSS dash patterns

### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Isaiah - syncing meeting notes with GH (Requires org. owner permission)
* Mateusz - use trusted publishers instead of NPM tokens

### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* [ty](https://docs.astral.sh/ty/) (type checker) had a new beta release yesterday
* Next week meeting postponed

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

* Mateusz - try out `ty` type checker with bokeh

## 10 Dec

Moderator: Timo

Note-taker: Isaiah

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Philipp
* Mateusz
* Timo
* Simon
* Bryan

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*



### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Bryan - Security checker switch to GH-native
    - [X] Postponed


### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Mateusz

- substantial progress on canvas-related CZI tasks
- added support for external legends (PR #14752)
- progress on experimental migration to VDOM (Preact)

### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Bryan - Next release time frame?
    * Mateusz - Discussed last week: Middle of Jan., 2026.

### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

NA

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

NA


## 3 Dec

Moderator: Isaiah

Note-taker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Timo
* Mateusz
* Daniel
* Philipp
* Pavithra

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

- Daniel, SWE at Quansight working on CZI R6

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Bryan - Security checker switch to GH-native
    - Postponed

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Mateusz

* Focused on Canvas redesign (CZI)

#### Daniel

* CZI Design exploration: https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/14714


### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

NA

### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

NA

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

NA

## 26 Nov

Moderator: Pavithra

Note-taker: Isaiah

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Mateusz
* Pavithra
* Philipp

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

NA

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Bryan - Security checker switch to GH-native
    - Postponed
- [x] Isaiah - Look into AI contrib policy for Bokeh
    - [ ] [Open PR](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/14736)

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Mateusz

- added support for binary buffers to `pull-doc` message
- started migration to MathJax 4.0
- fixed `export_svgs()` involving `Legend` annotation
- worked around CI issues on MacOS
- worked around random integration test failures
- continued work on CZI related redesigns on the canvas
- continued work on finalizing key binging support
- started working on theme switching

#### Daniel (async)

- Continuing: [Components colors and design updates](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/14714)


### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

N/A

### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

- Mateusz - 3.9 Release postponed a bit to early January 2026

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- Same as last week

## 19 Nov

Moderator: Timo

Note-taker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Timo
* Mateusz
* Bryan
* Pavithra
* Philipp

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

NA

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Bryan - Security checker switch to GH-native
    - postpone
- [ ] Isaiah - Look into AI contrib policy for Bokeh
    - postpone

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Mateusz

- Working on CZI R6 tasks
- Redesign of Colorbar similar to Sizebar
- Looking to finish Keyboard support
- reviewing prs

#### Daniel (async)

- working in the implementation for buttons changes (https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/14714)
    - might implement as a new theme, would be easier to test/review
    - potentially fits in well with themeing-related deliverable
    - more discussion in tech-sync (right after)

### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

- Catopy PR - Bryan would like to merge soon, Philipp to take a look

### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

NA

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

Same as past actions.

## 12 Nov

Moderator: Isaiah

Note-taker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Mateusz
* Pavithra
* Philipp
* Timo
* Simon

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

NA

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Bryan - Security checker switch to GH-native
    - postpone
    - 

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Mateusz

- redesigned `Title` annotation as a CSS/DOM component (PR #14713)
- redesigning `Label` and `Axis` similaraly
- redesigning `ColorBar` to use `Plot` internally
- started ripping out computed layout and replacing it with CSS layout
- working on React-style rendering support in bokehjs
- working on Material UI and Fluent UI integration
- working on key biding management (PR #14172)

#### CZI R6

- Daniel working on the TODOs on `less` files

### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* AI PRs thoughts? 
    * Some are micro-performance-improvements
    * Overall Low-effort, README updates - closed
    * Seem to be treating us as beta-testers
    * scikit-learn has clear policy around this: https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md#low-quality-and-ai-generated-contributions-policy
    * Mateusz - don't want to ban immediately, broader discussion needed

### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Blog post published
* 3.8.1 patch release published

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- Isaiah - Look into AI contrib policy for Bokeh

## 05 Nov

Moderator: Pavithra

Note-taker: Isaiah

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Philipp
* Mateusz
* Pavithra
* Timo

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [x] Pavithra - Publish blog post for 3.8
    - https://blog.bokeh.org/introducing-bokeh-3-8-84093b1689a6
- [ ] Bryan - Security checker switch to GH-native
    - Moved to next week

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Mateusz

- Working on Keyboard suppport
- Started working on integration with Material-UI
- Reviewing some open PRs; currently 44 open. Will try to close as many as possible.

#### CZI R6

- Daniel is working on next stage of inccorporating the Design System updates

### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

- N/A

### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

- N/A

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- 

## 29 Oct

Moderator: Timo

Note-taker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Mateusz
* Simon
* Timo
* Isaiah
* Philipp
* Pavithra

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Publish blog post for 3.8
    - Mateusz finished some sections
    - one screencast remaining
- [ ] Security checker switch to GH-native - Bryan

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Mateusz

- updated Chromium in visual tests and applied any big changes to baselines
- (CZI) Working on finishing key-bindings mgmt by next week
- (CZI) Canvas changes to support selectable text
- Exploration on conda UI project, new repo. Bokeh from a user-pov. Will share painpoints in a few weeks.


### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

NA

### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

- Onboarding to BokehJS session (Isaiah & Daniel), after this meeting

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- Same as last week.


## 22-Oct

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Mateusz
* Simon
* Timo
* Bryan
* Philipp
* Isaiah

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Blog post published - Not yet
    - Next week or sooner.

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### CZI R6 

- N/A

##### Mateusz

- started `conda-ui` testbed project
  - can we create a complex, statful application in bokeh
  - identify pain points with styling, templating, missing components, ad-hoc components, etc.
  - eventually should be usable tool, despite its primary experimental prupose
- redesigning `Title` and `Label` annotations (PR later today)
- redesigning `Axis` renderer (PR later this week)
- redesigning `Legend` annotation as a React-like component
- fixed a deprecation due to nodejs 24.x (PR #14680)

### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

- Philipp - Dropping pandas as a core dependency. what timeline should we look at?
    - Bryan - Next big release should be fine to do that.

### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

N/A

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- Publish blog post for 3.8
- Security checker switch to GH-native - Bryan
- Onboarding to bokehjs session - next week

## 15-Oct

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Philipp
* Mateusz
* Simon
* Pavithra

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- Bryan - Security checker switch to GH-native
    - discussion open

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### CZI R6 

NA

##### Mateusz

- Experimenting with virtual DOM libraries, lots of options, reimplementing couple of components to check.
- (CZI) Tasks related to canvas
- PR adding template-strings (introduced in python 3.14) -- will improve readability, and more
- Tried upgrade chromium in image-diff-tests / diff in local setup & CI, looking into it. CI is source of truth.
- Onboarding to bokehjs session next week.

### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

NA

### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

NA

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- Pavithra, publish blog post.

## 08-Oct

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Mateusz
* Bryan
* Philipp

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### CZI R6 

- Discussed next steps
    - Quansight to draft plan for Internationalization
        - RTL
        - Internal text translations
        - User provided labels/titles etc.
    - 

##### Mateusz

- Python 3.14
    - Event loop policy deprecation
    - `asyncio.iscoroutinefunction` deprecation
- Reviewing/finishing CZI PRs
    - Aiming to finish Color System PR today
- Redesigning `Title`/`Label` for CZI

### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

- Mateusz to run onboarding sessions for contributors (probably in two weeks)

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- Security checker switch

## 01-Oct

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Timo
* Pavithra

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

NA

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Bryan - switch to GH secret scanning

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### CZI R6 

* Slow for Bokeh, data navigator PoC in the works

### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

NA 

### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* NF meeting last week:
    * moving off OpenCollective
    * Online summit

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

NA