# Q3 2025 / Bokeh Weekly Sync ✨

**Welcome!**

:computer: We meet here: meet.google.com/dtm-iycn-ctx

:clock8: Every Wednesday, at 8am Pacific Time

to chat about everything Bokeh!

## Guidelines

- This meeting is covered by [Bokeh’s Code of Conduct](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/blob/branch-3.1/docs/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
- If you wish to participate in a discussion, please use Google Meet's "Raise hands :hand: " feature, and wait for the moderator to call on you.
- These notes are [synced with GitHub](https://github.com/bokeh/pm/blob/master/minutes/weekly/YYYY-MM.md) after the meeting, where you can find past meeting notes.

## Table of Contents

[TOC]

## 13 Aug

Moderator: ...

Notetaker: ...

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* 

Not attending: Gabriel (on vacation)

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

#### CZI R6 ()

#### TBD

### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 
    
### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item


## 06 Aug

Moderator: Bryan

Notetaker: Philipp

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Pavithra
* Bryan
* Philipp
* Simon
* Gabriel

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

N/A

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

* Philipp/Simon
    * Reviewing SizeBar and re-connect PRs
* Mateusz
    * Finalizing SizeBar PR

#### CZI R6

* Gab
    * No updates! Been busy on other projects
* Pavithra:
    * SVG Icons PR is close (one test failing)

### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 3.8.0 RC
    * Attempt to tag release by Friday
    
### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Release social post next week will be good

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item


## 30 Jul

Moderator: ...

Notetaker: ...

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Mateusz
* Philipp
* Pavithra
* Gabriel

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

NA

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- finalizing work on side panel layouts and `SizeBar` annotation (PR #14)
- finalized and merged hit filtering and other improvements to `HoverTool` (PR #14)
- fixed an annoying test failure related to OSM tile provider (PR #14)
- resolved `npm audit`'s concerns (PR #14)
- working on persistent `HoverTool` mode (PR #14)
- working on delegation to other components in `HoverTool` (PR #14)
- finalizing and testing layout fixes (PR #14)

#### CZI R6

* Pavithra - No updates, will look into review comments for svg icons.
    * Mateusz - this is a release blocker

* Gab
    * Updated CSV PR, completed [checklist of CSV PR TODO items](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/14519#issuecomment-3109380681)  identified last week
    * Partially reviewed: [Add support for toggling selectable text #14472](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/14472)


### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* RC postponed by a week
    
### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

## 23 Jul

Moderator: Bryan
Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* 

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

NA

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

NA

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

* finalizing some things for 3.8 release
    * hovertool
    * TBD
* Docs & testing
* Layout improvements on canvas, support for sizebar annotations
* Catching up: Issue triage, PR reviews and closed some older PRs
* Fixing some recent bug reports
* Working on longer PRs: ...

#### CZI R6

* Gabriel:
    * Working on open [PR for CSV export](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/14519)
        * Getting rid of 3rd party dependencies 
        * Adding tests
        

* Pavithra:
    * PR for fixed svg icon width/stoke issues

#### Philipp

* Reviewed some of Mateusz's PRs
* Work on / review: Support for conenction option after automatic re-connect

### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 3.8 release timeline:
    * RC in 1 week
    * Release the week after
* NumFOCUS migrating from Slack -> Zulip (does not affect Bokeh Slack for now)
* Mateusz - Holoviz/param is working on typing, we can leverage some of this in Bokeh. Will be creating a proposal for discussion: github discussion or draft PR with POC.
    
### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

NA

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [x] Pavithra - look into hackmd doc editing permissions
- [ ] Pavithra - add hackmd<>gihutb sync to this doc.

## 16 Jul

Moderator: Isaiah

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Philipp
* Isaiah
* Mateusz
* Pavithra

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

NA

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

NA

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

* Catching up after vacation, cleaning-up untriaged issues
* Finishing some PRs, heading towards 3.8 (no later than end of the month)

#### CZI R6

* Pavithra - Working on the plot reader docs, and with Smera on fixing the new svg icons


### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

NA
    
### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

NA

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

NA


## 09 Jul

Moderator: Pavithra

Notetaker: Isaiah

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Bryan
* Philipp
* Isaiah
* Gabriel
* Pavithra

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [x] Gabriel - POC branch for CSV export to look at

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*


#### CZI R6 ()

* Pavithra
    * Draft pr for plot readers documentation
    * Design - Smera is finalizing widgets a11y re-design after feedback
* Gab
    * Proof of concept: CSV export. 
    * Demo URL will stay up no longer than end of day: https://5777-bokeh-bokeh-b295y8g8lp6.ws-eu120.gitpod.io/bokeh/examples/basic/bars/bar



### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Gabriel - Way forward for the csv button?
    * Option in the context menu
    * Default button in the toolbar
    * Bryan - No strong preference for either option
    * Bryan - Another option would be to have an API to convert the CDS to a `.csv` file. Much simpler than a UX option

* Bryan - Needs some help to Triage some open Issues.
    
### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item


## 02 Jul

Moderator: Simon

Notetaker: Bryan

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Bryan
* Gabriel
* Simon

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

N/A

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

N/A

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

#### CZI R6 ()

* Gab 
    * No updates
    
### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Simon: Testing potential improvements for version confusions in google search in hvplot. Will move any improvements to Bokeh

* Gabriel
    * CSV export
        * CSV escaping
            * TypeScript compile problem
            * -3.14159 -> '-3.14159
        * Methodology
            * Tool class gets parent
            * Iterate through parent.children (views)
            * Filter instances of GlyphRendererView
            * Get unique set of data sources 
            * Output those as CSV

Results of discussion:

- Security problems with CSV are fundamentally not Bokeh's problem. However, perhaps we can show the user a warning if we detect values that look potentially dangerous.
- The methodology described for getting all the data sources is sounds correct; however, need to show actual code in a branch to make an assessment
    
### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

N/A

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*
 
- [ ] Gabriel - POC branch for CSV export to look at

<details>
<summary> Template: </summary>

## DD MMM

Moderator: ...

Notetaker: ...

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* 

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

#### CZI R6 ()

#### TBD

### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 
    
### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

</details>