# Q1 2025 / Bokeh Weekly Sync :sparkles:

**Welcome!**

:computer: We meet here: meet.google.com/dtm-iycn-ctx

:clock8: Every Wednesday, at 8am Pacific Time

to chat about everything Bokeh!

## Guidelines

- This meeting is covered by [Bokeh’s Code of Conduct](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/blob/branch-3.1/docs/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
- If you wish to participate in a discussion, please use Google Meet's "Raise hands :hand: " feature, and wait for the moderator to call on you.
- These notes are [synced with GitHub](https://github.com/bokeh/pm/blob/master/minutes/weekly/YYYY-MM.md) after the meeting, where you can find past meeting notes.

## Table of Contents

[TOC]

## 19 Mar

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Timo

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Gabriel
* Bryan
* Mateusz
* Ian
* Timo
* Philipp
* Isaiah

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Bryan - Remove old/unused milestones
    - In progress, can take some time after the meeting or find a new time
- [ ] Mateusz - Create an issue about transitioning to issue-types
- [x] Bryan/Philipp set up verified Bluesky account for Bokeh
- [ ] Potentially set up new meeting with Frank about a11y audit sometime later


### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- started work on `SizeBar` annotation (issue #2603), similar to `ColorBar`
- working on various regression fixes after 3.7 release
- investigating transition from Less to pure CSS
  - use native nesting, `:is()` selector, `color-mix()` function, etc.
  - potentially using postcss to support older web browsers
- finalizing work on migration of data annotations to glyphs (PR #14378)
- create some kind of showcase, especially Bokeh widgets (something like a GUI for conda). Might be a separate repo, maybe 3 or 4 variants of the UI (including Electron, web app, etc). Goal is to test things related to CZI, having one place to test all aspects. Will probably take several months.

#### CZI R6

* Pavithra, general updates:
    * Roadmap in progress
    * Design work (icons redesign and design system creation) in progress

* [name=Gabriel]
    * Still working on [CSS vars/theming](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/14177). Nothing to show yet, but should have something by next meeting.

#### TBD

### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Bryan: Bluesky account exists, two posts so far!
    
### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Bryan - Remove old/unused milestones
    - In progress, can take some time after the meeting or find a new time
- [ ] Mateusz - Create an issue about transitioning to issue-types
- [ ] Potentially set up new meeting with Frank about a11y audit sometime later

## 12 Mar

Moderator: Pavithra

Notetaker: Timo

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Philipp
* Gabriel
* Mateusz
* Timo
* Bryan
* Pavithra

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Bryan - Remove old/unused milestones
    - In progress, can take some time after the meeting or find a new time
- [ ] Mateusz - Create an issue about transitioning to issue-types
- [ ] Discuss next steps after Frank's a11y presentation

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- finalized bokeh 3.7 release and started 3.8 release cycle
- 3.8 release planning and prioritization
- start working on a public API for smooth curves
- finalizing work on migration of data annotations to glyphs
- experimenting with improvements and simplifications to the BokehJS build system (TypeScript interactions on the Node level). LAtest develpment: new compiler for TS from Microsoft, might be complete in about half a year (written in Go), drop-in replacement for existing compiler with vast performance improvements.

#### CZI R6 ()

- [name=Gab] My focus for March is [theming and CSS vars](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/14177)

### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Bryan: Release timeline? Probably today, no new issues have come up so far. Mateusz to make the release. Blog post is pretty much done, just missing the drawer UI component, but is good to go as it is (potentially amend it after publishing).
* Bluesky account for Bokeh? Try to verify it (via DNS?): Philipp to provide the link to the docs, Bryan to set up the record with cloudflare.
    
### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Bryan: Blog post on Discourse - where else? Hopefully Bluesky!

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Bryan - Remove old/unused milestones
    - In progress, can take some time after the meeting or find a new time
- [ ] Mateusz - Create an issue about transitioning to issue-types
- [ ] Bryan/Philipp set up verified Bluesky account for Bokeh
- [ ] Potentially set up new meeting with Frank about a11y audit sometime later

## 05 Mar

Moderator: Isaiah

Notetaker: Timo

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Gabriel
* Timo
* Pavithra
* Ian

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Bryan - Remove old/unused milestones
    - In progress, can take some time after the meeting or find a new time
- [ ] Mateusz - Create an issue about transitioning to issue-types
- [x] Pavithra - Document switch to issue-types
    - [BEP 1](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/wiki/BEP-1:-Issues-and-PRs-management)
- [x] Mateusz / Bryan - Working on the blog post 

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

* Preparing for release
* Started a draft document for release blog post
* Finalizing work on glyph decorations (PR #13619)
* Various fixes to Bokeh's type declarations (`*.pyi`) (PR #14390)
* Experiment in dropping ts-node and streamline `node make` (PR #14379)
* Making serialization protocol JSON object order independent (PR #14366)
* Replaced data annotations with glyphs (PR #14378)
  - this supersedes an older PR; new approach to backwards compatibility
* Added support for UI hints for tools and interactive components in plots (PR #14382)
* Updated TypeScript to version 5.8 and fixed `npm audit` complaints (PR #14373)
* Downgraded Python syntax in declaration files (`*.pyi`) to version 3.10 (PR #14380)
* Added validation of test description (baseline names) in bokehjs' tests (PR #14387)
* Changed type of `ImageURLTexture.url` from `String` to `Image` (PR #14371)

#### CZI R6 

* (Pavithra) General updates:
    * UI/UX Design tasks are in progress: new SVG icons, accessible color palettes, and accessible interactions for widgets
    * A11y roadmap in progress

* [name=Gabriel] Nothing from me this week


### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Upcoming Relesase(s): 
    * Window autoranging and glyph decorators will probably not be included. 
    * RC today, then a quicker release with 3.8 to include these things
    * Then 3.9 with CSS releases
    * 4.0: Ian is planning BokehJS to be fully working for this release

* Frank Elavsky, thoughts on the [accessibility audit](https://bokeh-a11y-audit.readthedocs.io/index.html)
    * First a11y audit of any large-scale visualization library
    * Some things might be outside of what is possible to fix, so hope that OSS community members will be able to work on different areas
    * Documentation at https://bokeh-a11y-audit.readthedocs.io/index.html 
    * There are dozens of documents, with an extensive summary
    * The purpose of the audit is to evaluate the status quo, not prescribing solutions
    * Looked at Bokeh in three sections:
        * 1. Plot tools
        * 2. Plotting interface
        * 3. Annotations
    * Findings ordered by priority (high priority for things that are the basis for a lot of other tings)
    * Highst priority: textual accessibility - having (hidden) text annotations and explanations. This is important for assitance technologies but also new users ir users with cognitive impairments
    * Second high-priority point: navigation design and screen readers compatibility

    
### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Bryan - Remove old/unused milestones
    - In progress, can take some time after the meeting or find a new time
- [ ] Mateusz - Create an issue about transitioning existing issues to issue-types
- [ ] Discuss next steps after Frank's a11y presentation- [ ] Discuss next steps after Frank's a11y presentation

## 26 Feb

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Timo
* Bryan
* Mateusz
* gabriel
* ian
* Philipp
* Pavithra

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Bryan - Remove old/unused milestones
    - In progress, can take some time after the meeting or find a new time
- [ ] Mateusz - Create an issue about transitioning to issue-types
    - Postpone
- [ ] Pavithra - Document switch to issue-types
    - Postpone

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- made deserialization of models order independent (PR #14366)
- improved serialization to exclude unstable defaults (PR #14365)
- added support for formatters to `ValueOf(obj, attrs)` (PR #14358)
- added support for `html_id` and `html_attributes` properties (PR #14357)
- fixed `drawImage()` under transform and clip-path in SVG backend (PR #14356)
- finalizing work on glyph decorations (PR #13619)
- working on notification API and bubbling logging messages to the UI (issue #14252)

#### CZI R6 

* (Pavithra) Audit completed: https://bokeh-a11y-audit.readthedocs.io/index.html
    * Invited Frank to sync next week.
    * Next step: Define actions for each observation, and create a roadmap by end-of-March

* [name=Gabriel] 
    * No major updates from me since last week
    * Left code review: [Allow to auto activate wheel zoom tool on focus #14112](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/14112)

#### Ian

 * Started updating tutorial to use pyodide kernel in JupyterLite https://github.com/bokeh/tutorial/pull/51


### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Process around having issues for all PRs, intersects with moving to issue-types (only available for issues)
    * Will include only adding issues (no PRs) to milestones
    * Mateusz - Trying to do this already, it's a good idea
    * Timo - Might be extra steps for new contributors
    * Bryan - We can open quick issues for new contributors PRs, but most contributors are opening issues first 
    * Next step: Update the BEP
    * Gabriel - Will be good include rationale with the instructions
    * Ian - Could mention in the docs: issues are not a pre-requisite to opening a PR, just needed before merging
    
* Release
    * code freeze on Friday
    * release by next Wednesday
    * no major issues with Panel, test with Dask

* jupyter-bokeh has a new PR, needs review

    
### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* NumFOCUS SDG process getting some updates
    * Includes a level of random selection of proposals
    * Budget is increasing as well

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Mateusz / Bryan - Working on the blog post 

## 19 Feb

Moderator: Pavithra

Notetaker: Isaiah

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Mateusz
* Isaiah
* Bryan
* Chiemezuo
* Pavithra
* Timo
* Gabriel
* Cyprian
* Philipp

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Mateusz - Create an issue about transitioning to issue-types
- [ ] Pavithra - Document switch to issue-types

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- started adding ARIA roles to components (PR #14341)
- added preliminary support for data validation to data specs (PR #14327)
- added support for named legends (`legend_name`) to glyph API (PR #14325)
- finalized work on `Progress` widget (determinate and inteterminate variants) (PR #13546)
- finalizing work configurable tool layout support in `Toolbar` (PR #13571)
- finalizing work on glyph decoration support (PR #13619)
- trying to finalize new measurement tools (PR #13279)
- working on improvements to serialization of "unstable" values (issue #14293)
- working on notification components and API (issue #14252)
- working on row/column/grid layouts of legends, color bars, etc. (issue #14323)

#### CZI R6 ()

Gabriel's updates:
- GitHub discussion: [Checkable menu item API #14338](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/discussions/14338)
- Issues created and/or working on:
	- [Landing page for BokehJS test/devtools server #14314](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/14314)
	- [Make examples/models/widgets available on the world wide web #14345](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/14345)
	- Still working on, but no new progress: [Define the initial set of common CSS variables #14177](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/14177)
- Reviewed: #14277
- Reviewing: #14112

General updates:
- Audit complete: https://github.com/Quansight-Labs/bokeh-a11y-audit/pull/22
    - immediate next steps is to add to the bokeh organization
    - Mateusz - provided some feedback previously


### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Bryan - PROPOSAL: collapse old (unused) milestones
    * After this meeting

* Mateusz from last week, labels type:discussion on resolved issues
    * Bryan - Add process to BEP to make it easy and consistent to follow

* Isaiah - Bokeh partnership with local learning hub in Nigeria
    * Bryan - Ping on slack for follow up

### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Starting release blog post early
* Bokeh updates in the next NF newsletter


### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Bryan -- Remove old/unused milestones

## 12-Feb

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Timo
* Philipp
* Isaiah
* Pavithra
* Mateusz

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

NA

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [x] All -- Raise discussion about the new `Issue types` on GH
    - Mateusz, in practical terms we've switched
    - we can remove labels that serve the same function as issue-types, need to transition all issues to follow issue-types -- a github action could help
    - start with an issue, and then decide how to proceed
    - decision is to switch -- need to document in BEP


### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- added support for equality checking for `ArrayBuffer` and alike (PR #14313)
- added `Any` types to `__init__` used for signature generation (PR #14317)
  - converted all usage of `Any` property to `AnyRef` except for `ColumnarDataSource.data`
- implemented hatch visuals everywhere fill visuals are supported (PR #14311)
  - needs a followup with canvas visual to CSS mapping
- removed `defaults` conda channel in CI (PR #14309)
- split off `downstream` tests from bokeh CI workflow to its own (PR #14307)
  - still needs fixing and making the workflow fail when tests fail
- finalized support for tool grouping in `Toolbar` (PR #14259)
- finalized fixes to `Tooltip` positioning especially in fullscreen mode (PR #14145)
- added support for label and on/off icons to `Switch` widget (PR #14294)
  - improves examples and in preparation for theme switcher component
- added Python type declarations for `figure()` API (PR #14289)
- finalized Python type declarations for glyph API (PR #14269)
- finalizing fixes to `Toolbar` tool button visibility handling (PR #14251)
- finalizing work on customizable tool button layout in `Toolbar`
- experimental PR for reducing the number of model invalidations in bokehjs (PR #14295)
  - works, but needs more work especially to completely remove immediate invalidations
  - great performance improvment when adding/removing models

#### CZI R6

* (Pavithra) General updates:
    * Smera is  working on the colour system, fixing colour contrast on plot components, and creating the SVG icons
    * [Audit summarization](https://github.com/Quansight-Labs/bokeh-a11y-audit/blob/add-summary-doc/source/summary.md) is in final review. Once complete we'll also get a DOI for it.
    * Our talks, focusing on accessibility in dataviz with examples from the audit performed for Bokeh, were accepted to PyCon US and PyCon DE
    * Team will be working on the first interim report, which is due on 1st March
* Gabriel (cannot attend, meeting conflict):
    * Reviewing PRs: 
        * [Allow Tooltip to show in full-screen mode #14145](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/14145)
        * [Allow to auto activate wheel zoom tool on focus #14112](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/14112)
    * Still working on CSS variables
    * I would like to get started working on [Landing page for BokehJS test/devtools server #14314](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/14314)


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Bryan shared updates for numfocus newsletter

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Mateusz: New needs-test issue type. Fixed issues that need regression tests were marked as type:bug -> type:discussions(?), which is re-surfacing them as bugs. Suggests keeping them as type:bug, because they were resolved as bugs.
    * Postponed to next week
* Mateusz: Release; RC was supposed to happen this week, suggesting postpone to 2-weeks. We can inlcude Bryan's ongoing Prs
    * Final dates: rc on 26th Feb
    * Before rc: some regression fixes, tardis-sdg related work, downstream tests

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Mateusz - Create an issue about transitioning to issue-types
- [ ] Pavithra - Document switch to issue-types


## 05-Feb

Moderator: Isaiah

Notetaker: Timo

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Gabriel
* Mateusz
* Ian
* Demetris
* Chiemezuo
* Timo

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [x] Mateusz -- Create 4.0 milestone/project
- [ ] All -- Raise discussion about the new `Issue types` on GH
- [x] Bryan -- 3.6.3 release



### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- added support for tool grouping (PR #14259) (long-time ask)
- added support for type declarations to glyph functions on figure's glyph API(PR #14)
- fixed some mypy 1.15 compatibility issues (PR #14269)
- addressing some issues that were introduced by the PR that added tool menues (PR #14277)
- other open PRs

#### CZI R6 ()

- Gab
    - Reviewed #14228 (context menus), creating follow up issues
    - Still focussing on: Define the initial set of common CSS variables #14177

#### R5

- Demetris: R5 blog posts are finished, wil be published soon

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 3.6.3 release coming probably today, if not then later this week

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* GH Issue Types

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] All -- Raise discussion about the new `Issue types` on GH


## 29-Jan

Moderator: Bryan

Notetaker: Isaiah

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Bryan
* Isaiah
* Ian
* Mateusz
* Gabriel
* Philipp

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- finalized initial typings for bokeh models and properties (PR #13900)
- finalized menu improvements and tool context menus (PR #14228)
- fixed a regression in color output in SVG backend (PR #14264)
- fixed a bug in tool button visiblity handling (PR #14251)
- added support for tool grouping to Plot/figure's toolbar (PR #14259)
- started work on universal notification API/UI (for PR #14201)
- continuing work on theming for CZI

#### CZI R6 ()

- Gab's focus this past week and the rest of the week:
    - Reviewing: [Allow to access tools via a context menu #14228](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/14228) - review not submitted yet
    - Issue: [Define the initial set of common CSS variables #14177](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/14177)

- Pavithra and Frank working on the audit to present soon



### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Bryan - Will like a 3.6.3 bug fix release soon
    * Mateusz - SVG regression that needs to be backported

* A lot of contribution activity at the [Discourse showcase](https://discourse.bokeh.org/c/showcase/13)

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Bryan -- 3.6.3 release

## 22-Jan

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Isaiah

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Timo
* Ian
* Mateusz
* Philipp
* Pavithra
* Gabriel

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

NA

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- work in progress on theming design
- added support for tool (context) menus (PR #14228)
  - significant improvements to the design of menus
  - almost removed a competing non-model based implementation
  - includes initial theming CSS variables for menus, tools, toolbars
- finalizing work on initial Python type declaration files for models (PR #13900)
- trying to finalize work on customizable toolbars (PR #13571)
- trying to finalize work on removal of data annotations (PR #13344)
  - new approach to backwards compatibility should greatly simplify the PR
- restarted work on measurement tools (PR #13279)
  - currently includes angle/protractor tool
  - working on distance/length measurement tool
- trying another approach to fix model initialization (PR #13872)
- improved typing in `bokeh.plotting._renderer` module (PR #14233)
- minimal simplification to the layout (PR #14234)

#### CZI R6

* Pavithra: [audit summarization](https://github.com/Quansight-Labs/bokeh-a11y-audit/pull/22) and design work shared last week is still ongoing
* Gab: 
    * From last week's first weekly tech design (just after this meeting), topics we covered:
        * BokehJS's approach to layout 
        * CSS vars

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* Ian
    * New repo in bokeh github org `bokehjs-examples`?
        * Mateusz - There is already an old one which can be looked at and possibly revived
    * Initially to contain my TypeScript examples and CI to confirm they work.
    * Later can add other options, docs, etc.
    * Initially will just push to `main` branch, when I've set CI up I will submit PRs.

* Timo
    * NumFocus CoC email sent out. Probably worth looking into (to update our existing one or not)

* Mateusz
    * Should we adopt the new `Issue types` introduced by GH? - It looks nice and clearer than our old custom one
    * Only problem is that it only applies to `Issues` but not PRs

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [x] Pavithra -- Fix the link to the current CoC
- [ ] Mateusz -- Create 4.0 milestone/project
- [ ] All -- Raise discussion about the new `Issue types` on GH

## 15-Jan

Moderator: Isaiah

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Isaiah
* Gabriel
* Mateusz
* Chiemezuo
* Bryan
* Pavithra
* Ian
* Philipp

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

NA

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

NA

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

- continuing work on theming (design, planning, project management)
- wrapping up work on key binding management (PR #14172)
- added support for tool access via a context menu on plots (PR #14228)
- trying to revive and finalize a few long running PRs
  - measurement tools
  - removal of data annotations
  - customizable toolbar buttons
  - glyph decorations

#### CZI R6

- Pavithra, general updates:
    - [Audit summarization in progress](https://github.com/Quansight-Labs/bokeh-a11y-audit/pull/22)
    - Design (Smera):
        - Creating a default palette with a a11y-friendly blue (based on current default)
        - Adding all variables to Figma as initial step
        - Will work on [Issue #12282](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/12282) and [Issue #14224](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/issues/14224)

- Gabriel:
    - Methodically internalizing the accessibility audit

### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* Bokeh Design meetings (for now for CZI) (after weekly meetings)
* mybinder (tutorial hosting) was down, we've removed mentions of binder and pointing directly to the repo. Looking into GitHub codespaces as an alternative.

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 3.7 release timeline
    * RC this week
    * Some CZI PRs, glyph markers PR, etc. are yet to be merged
* CZI R5 - create a blog post from final report (check with Demetris)

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

NA


## 08-Jan

Moderator: Timo

Notetaker: Pavithra

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* Philipp
* Ian
* Mateusz
* Gabriel
* Timo
* Pavithra

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

NA

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

NA

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

* Focusing on design and preliminary implementation of CSS themeing support
* Continuing work on keyboard support
* Completing PR fixing initialization of Bokeh models

#### CZI R6

- Pavithra: Accessibility audit summaries is almost complete, will invite Frank to a sync to present the work

#### Ian

- BokehJS TypeScript building improvements starting this week
- Starting with Mateusz' PR https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/13872


### 5. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

NA

### 6. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

NA

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

NA

---

<details>
<summary> Template: </summary>

## DD MMM

Moderator: ...

Notetaker: ...

### 1. Attending

*Please add your name here :)*

* Name / Pronouns (optional) / GitHub handle (optional)
* 

### 2. New introductions!

*Is this your first time in this weekly sync meeting? Welcome! We'd love to hear about you!*

* 

### 3. Past actions

*Did we complete our actions from last week? Notetaker to copy over action items from the previous meeting.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

### 4. Updates

*Active contibutors, especially funded developers, share quick highlights from last week, and the roadmap for next week.*

#### Anaconda (Mateusz)

#### CZI R6 ()

#### TBD

### 5. Discussion items

*Add any topics that will benefit from feedback from everyone present. Please add your topics here while we go through updates.*

* 
    
### 6. External announcements

*Does the contributor team have any announcements for the broader Bokeh community? For example, new releases (candidates), upcoming talks or sprints, new core team members, and more.*

* 

### 7. Actions

*Action items that come up during discussions, that are not a part of the roadmap for next week. This is also an opportunity to review actions from the previous week.*

- [ ] Assignee -- Action item

</details>